 p Volunteering with elephants is a once-in-a-lifetime experience! Sadly, the grey giants are endangered because of illegal poaching and habitat loss. It is time to get active: Travel to Africa or Asia and work for an elephant conservation project. This is your chance to observe elephants in their natural habitat and support their protection at the same time.  p 
 p You want to get hands-on and care for elephants that have been rescued from the tourism industry? Join an elephant sanctuary in Chiang Mai in Thailand or in South Africa in order to volunteer with elephants on a day-to-day basis and educate tourists.  p 
 p class="first-sentence" Elephants have always fascinated you? No wonder - the largest land mammals on earth really do have a majestic appearance. Their intelligence, sensitivity and social nature make the “gentle giants” all the more interesting to study and to observe in real life. Watching elephants roam free is on the bucket list of most travelers visiting Africa or Asia.  p 
 p Sadly, this romantic image becomes rarer as elephant numbers are declining worldwide.  b Their natural habitats are shrinking while the threats around them continue to grow  b . There are many ways you can help to stop this development, like avoiding to buy jewelry and decoration made from ivory, not engaging in elephant riding whilst on holiday abroad or donating to organizations that protect elephants. But most importantly, you can  b volunteer with elephants in Africa or Asia (e.g. in Thailand, Sri Lanka, Nepal, India or Cambodia) and help to save this endangered species first hand  b . If you have always wanted to travel meaningfully and become active for a cause that is close to your heart, this is your chance. We will give you all the information you need about the threats elephants are facing, where you can do conservation work, how to volunteer at an elephant sanctuary and what your daily tasks will look like.  p 
 p As for the latest entries in the IUCN red list of endangered species,  b African elephants are considered as vulnerable while Asian elephants are classified as endangered  b , and it doesn’t look any better for their subspecies. The populations are decreasing due to many different factors, the majority being manmade. Generally, a healthy grown-up elephant has no natural predators other than humans. But elephants have quite a low reproduction rate, and even though they live for 30 to 50 years in the wild, females only give birth to about four to five calves in their lives. One of the reasons is the pregnancy of 22 months, the longest of all mammal pregnancies. The other reason is that they only reach their reproductive age at around 16.  p 
 p Female elephants and their babies live together in herds, with the oldest female leading as a matriarch. At around three years, the male calves leave the herds and roam mostly in isolation.  b The herds raise their calves together and show many signs of social structures and behaviors, like grieving for their dead, hugging their trunks for greeting and showing affection and compassion  b .  p 
 p Elephants are an important part of the ecosystems they live in and are integrally tied to a rich biodiversity.  b Many plants can only spread their growth when they are eaten by elephants  b . The seeds germinate in the elephant’s digestive tract and are distributed miles away through the dung. In forests, their passing creates gaps that makes room for new plants and encourages tree regeneration. Apart from their value for the environment, elephants have a cultural and traditional importance in many of their home countries. Saving the gentle giants from extinction is important for many different causes, and each of them is reason enough to  b become active and engage in a conservation volunteer project with elephants  b .  p 
 p As mentioned before, there are no natural predators to a grown up elephant. Their size and strength are effective enough against big cats and other hunters. Unfortunately, elephants provide many things that humans can make profit with, some of which are   p 
 p  b The most urgent threat to African elephants today is the illegal poaching for ivory trade  b . Both male and female African elephants have large tusks, which makes them an attractive target for poachers. And while only a small percentage of Asian elephants have tusks, the same applies to them. Even though international ivory trade has officially been banned in 1989 to protect elephants,  b there are still unregulated domestic markets for ivory trade in the US, China, Thailand and other countries  b . Furthermore, in some countries, political conflicts have hindered anti-poaching measurements from succeeding.  p 
 p In both, Asia and Africa, elephants are facing an immense habitat loss. With human expansion and the construction of villages, roads, pipelines and plantations, the elephants lose their natural roaming grounds. Over the past decades, the decline in habitat has lead to more and more conflicts between humans and elephants. Most often these conflicts result in the death of the animals that cause trouble for farmers, plantation owners and people living in the small villages.  p 
 p A great problem in Asia is the capture of elephants from the wild. It is estimated that at least 30% of Asia’s overall elephant population lives in captivity, and numbers are, unfortunately, growing.  b Most elephants are captured as calves to be trained to work in the logging or tourism industry  b . The captures and the following “training” methods are extremely cruel and brutal and often result in the death of the calves. This development has become a serious threat to some wild populations.  p 
 p Countries like Vietnam or India have already banned the capture of wild elephants, but especially in Thailand, Cambodia and Sri Lanka elephant riding is still a massive tourist attraction. Many tourists simply aren’t aware of the extremely brutal training and handling the elephants have to suffer, and in some cases the ignorance sadly outweighs all reason.  b That’s why it is even more important to spread the word that elephant riding is a cruel business and everybody who takes part in it directly supports those responsible for declining elephant numbers  b .  p 
 p As you know by now, the two main species are the  b African elephant  b  and the  b Asian elephant  b . The African elephant is slightly bigger than its Asian relative and has much larger ears. They also carry tusks that continue to grow throughout their lifetime. Elephants prefer one tusk and use it for a lot of things, almost like humans that are right- or left-handed. The herds of African elephants roam through 37 different countries in Africa, from South Africa all the way up to central and sub-Saharan Africa.  p 
 p There are three subspecies of the African elephant that are named after their preferred habitats. The number of African elephants still to roam the wildness freely is estimated to be around 415.000.  p 
 p  b Desert elephants  b  can be found mainly in Namibia and Mali and as their name tells, they are desert-dwelling elephants that wander from waterhole to waterhole. On their journeys, they follow traditional routes that they have learned from their ancestors.  p 
 p  b Bush elephants  b  are the largest out of all the subspecies. Average male individuals are 3.2 meters (10.5 ft) high and weigh around 6 tonnes. The females are much smaller and lighter, with an average height of 2.6 meters (8.5 ft) and 3 tonnes. Bush elephants can be found in many different countries from south to central and western Africa.  p 
 p The  b forest elephant  b  is considerably smaller than his relatives, and it is still unclear if he is a subspecies of the African elephant or should be regarded as an own species altogether. They can be found in the Congo Basin in central Africa and travel in much smaller groups than other subspecies.  p 
 p There are four subspecies of the Asian elephant and in contrast to their African relatives, they are named after the country they can mainly be found in. The overall population of the Asian elephant is much smaller than that of the African elephant, as it is estimated that there are about 50.000 individuals left today.  p 
 p The  b Sri Lankan elephant  b  is the largest of the Asian subspecies with a distinctively darker skin color. Their numbers have dropped significantly over the past decades to the point where they are protected by law and killing an elephant is followed by a death sentence. Surprisingly, it is estimated that Sri Lanka has the highest density of elephants in Asia.  p 
 p  b Indian elephants  b  can be found in many different Asian countries like India, Nepal, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and China, just to name a few. They are the only subspecies roaming the mainland, whilst all other subspecies appear on islands. Only a small number of the males grow tusks which are considerably smaller than the tusks of the African species.  p 
 p The  b Sumatran elephant  b  lives in Sumatra and Borneo in lush forest habitats. The biggest threat to this subspecies is the ongoing destruction of the islands that are also home to a great number of rare species and unique biodiversity.  p 
 p They share a home with the  b Bornean elephant  b , also called pygmy elephant as their height is much smaller than the average Asian elephant. Observations show that this subspecies has a very gentle nature and is not as aggressive as some of the other Asian subspecies can be.  p 
 p To give you a better overview, these are all the species and subspecies of elephants roaming our earth:  p 
 p Now that you have learned so much about all the different elephant species and the threats they are facing, you might want to dive right in and become an elephant conservation volunteer.  b This is exactly the right attitude as elephant conservation projects in both Asia and Africa need the helping hands of international volunteers  b . The initial decision between Africa and Asia might be the easiest one here, surely one of these continents has personally always been a little bit more appealing to you than the other. If you are indecisive about the destination of your volunteer journey, the following information might be helpful for you.  p 
 p When volunteering for an elephant project in Africa, it is very likely that you will get to see the other four of the Big Five as well. Africa is famous for its stunning wildlife, so prepare to see  p 
 p and much more when you are out in the wild observing elephants.  b Many of the elephant conservation projects and sanctuaries are located in South Africa  b . The Kruger National Park in the north of the country is just one address where you can work with elephants, but there are many opportunities close to the southern coast as well. In fact, South Africa is a hotspot for any kind of wildlife volunteering and tourism alike. If you want to combine your volunteering with some sightseeing on the weekends, then South Africa is the perfect place for your volunteer project.  p 
 p If you are looking for a more remote and less touristy place to work with elephants, you might want to go a bit further north to Zimbabwe, Malawi, Namibia or Kenya.  b While these countries share their fascinating wildlife with South Africa, they are much less visited and less developed at the same time  b . Illegal poaching is more common as people are often very poor and there are lots of small villages that consist of tent-like houses which are more vulnerable to elephant crossings. If you are ready to get your hands dirty with other volunteers and lead a simple camp life without internet and other luxuries for a while, this is the right place for you to make a difference.  p 
 p While Asia might not offer the possibilities to go on safari in your free time, the natural beauty and the fascinating cultures will leave no need for second thoughts. The possibilities to volunteer with elephants in Asia are varied and you can also choose between more popular and touristy destinations and remote and quiet areas.  p 
 p Thinking about travel hotspots in Asia, Thailand might be the first country that comes to your mind. Unfortunately, many of the tourists that travel to Thailand every year have one specific thing on their bucket list: riding an elephant.  b You already know by now that riding elephants is pure animal cruelty and needs to stop to protect the gentle giants from harm and also to ensure a steady growth of the wild populations  b . So if you decide to be a conservation volunteer with elephants in Thailand, the main area to go is Chiang Mai. As a true tourist hotspot, there are many sanctuaries in  a href="https:  www.volunteerworld.com en volunteer-abroad chiang-mai" class="vowo-font-action" Chiang Mai  a  that have saved elephants from the riding industry and have given them a safe forever home where they are not harmed. These projects often welcome tourists into their sanctuaries to observe the elephants and educate them about the problems of elephant tourism.  p 
 p Of course, touristy places like Chiang Mai or Thailand in general, are not for everybody.  b If you prefer more remote areas with less tourism where you can truly experience the traditional way of life, we highly recommend Sri Lanka as your destination to work with elephants  b . The small island south of India has a large population of free-roaming elephants in the jungles, and you can dive right into this paradise of nature and become their silent observer. Elephants are now protected by law in Sri Lanka, but they also play a big part in Sri Lanka's culture and have been trained for different religious and domestic purposes. That is why there are also elephant sanctuaries caring for the individuals that are either too old to serve their original purpose or are disabled and chronically ill. These sanctuaries allow a closer contact with the elephants as they have been captive and are used to human interaction.  p 
 p Another place to volunteer with elephants in Asia is of course Borneo.  b The unique paradise is home to Sumatran elephants and the Borneo pygmy elephants, that almost look like the stuffed-animal version of their bigger relatives  b . If you are looking for lush rainforests, remote places and just pure nature, then Borneo is the right place for your volunteering journey abroad.   p 
 p  b But ultimately, keep in mind that no matter if you go to a elephant sanctuary in Thailand, South Africa or Sri Lanka, you will have a positive impact on the conservation of endangered elephants, which is the most important part.  b   p 
 p There are many different ways to protect elephants and not all projects work in the same manner. Depending on what you are looking for, this introduction to the tasks and benefits of elephant volunteers will be helpful for you to find the right program abroad. Whether you want to observe elephants in their natural habitat or you want to work at a sanctuary and educate locals and tourists on ways to protect elephants and their habitat, there will be a program that matches your expectations and skillset.  p 
 p Depending on which elephant conservation project you are going to join, there are many possible tasks that your work is going to entail.  b If you are working for a project that focuses on the research and observation of wild elephant populations, your main tasks will be to observe the herds and collect data for the research  b . Usually, volunteers and researchers live at a base camp and conduct game drives and foot walks for their observation purposes. Sometimes you will camp out in the wild or be stationed at a hide near a waterhole where you get to see all kinds of animals next to elephants.   p 
 p Of course, it is necessary that volunteers are well prepared for these tasks. There will likely be lessons and presentations about the correct conduction of research work, how to approach dangerous animals on foot and how to behave in certain situations.  b Some time will also be spent at a computer, transferring the collected data and putting together reports  b . Maintaining the camps and vehicles is another important task that you will do as a volunteer at an elephant conservation project. Some of your other tasks could include:  p 
 p A further part of working with free-roaming elephants is helping to avoid human-elephant conflicts. Knowing the common routes of elephant herds can be a first step towards that, others are  b to educate locals about the behavior of elephants and to find ways to protect the locals’ houses and harvest against them  b . While building fences is one solution, there are other natural ways that can help keeping elephants at distance. Elephants don’t like the scent of chilies, for example, so placing hot chili at the borders of fields and villages can be one way to keep the giant grey visitors away.  p 
 p If you would rather work with elephants that have been rescued from capture and mistreatment in the tourism or logging industry, your tasks will look very different. Some of the elephants will be able to live semi-wild in a protected area without human contacts.  b Your main tasks at one of these projects will be to patrol and maintain the area, control fences and clean out any enclosure areas  b . If the projects welcome tourists to observe their elephants, you could be responsible for showing them around and explaining your work to them. Other elephants might be so used to human contact that you will be working with them hands-on in a sanctuary. Your volunteer tasks will consist of:  p 
 p No matter what your tasks are and how close you get to the elephants; it is very important to keep in mind that these elephants are still wild animals.  b Always treat them with respect and necessary caution to prevent yourself and the elephants from getting in danger  b .  p 
 p Seeing elephants roam wild in their natural habitat is a once-in-a-lifetime experience that you will never forget. That alone is reason enough for many people to pack their bags and volunteer with elephants around the world. But apart from that, there are plenty of other reasons why this kind of volunteer project could be the right choice for you. b  If you are interested in studying biology or veterinary medicine, a volunteer program working with elephants will be a great fit  b . You will gain hands-on experience and get a first insight into the daily work of trained wildlife experts and biologists, which will certainly come in handy at a later point in your career. Being able to list this kind of work experience on your CV is another bonus, even if you are not planning on pursuing a career in this field. It shows that you are capable of physically hard and hands-on work and that you are motivated to volunteer your free-time to a meaningful cause.  p 
 p Depending on where you choose to volunteer, you might get to refine your language skills whilst working on site as the main language spoken is English. Immersing yourself in a foreign culture and living abroad will definitely make you grow as a person and give you a different perspective.  b And let’s not forget that the time you spend as an elephant conservation volunteer will also be incredibly fun!  b  You will get to enjoy all the perks of living in the pure nature, like seeing wild animals from up close, getting back to your roots and facing new challenges.  p 
 p The best part is that you will be surrounded by like-minded volunteers that share your passion for elephant and wildlife conservation. After working and living together for a while, these people might even become your close friends!  b If you think that joining an elephant conservation project as a volunteer is just what you were looking for, then go ahead and get started right now!  b  We would love to help you find the right project for you!  p 
 p  You requested a page that doesn't exist on this site any more. This could be caused by a link
you followed that was out of date, by a typing in the wrong address in the address bar,
or simply because the post has been deleted.  p 
