 p You can navigate to your local World Animal Protection site here:  p 
 p Ready to stop animals suffering? Donate to World Animal Protection today. Your donation will be used wherever the need to protect animals is most urgent. Select your nearest country to donate.  p 
 p class="caption" Header image: Alex Krasavtsev  p 
 p This exciting collaboration came after our successful lobbying of the Danish Parliament, which recently announced its commitment to ban the use of wild animals in circuses.  p 
 p Over  strong 50,000 animal lovers  strong  in Denmark called for the government to end the cruelty inflicted on circus elephants.  p 
 p The tide is now turning, as  strong 14 other European countries  strong  have recently implemented similar bans, many of which come into force this year.  p 
 p But sadly,  strong more than 100 elephants   strong are still forced to entertain in circuses across the continent.  p 
 p Set in a beautiful,  strong 70-acre location  strong  in the South of France,  a href="https:  www.elephanthaven.com en home" Elephant Haven  a  will provide a home for liberated elephants, free from the torment of forced entertainment. Sadly, these wild animals have suffered such cruelty entertaining circus-goers that they cannot be re-introduced to the wild.  p 
 p Elephant Haven plans to open its first barn this summer. We’re granting strong  €150,000  strong  for the inside structure of the barn, which will be ready in August 2018.  p 
 p Elephant Haven plans to expand further and build another barn to house a further five elephants by 2020. The safety of elephants is paramount: cameras will be placed inside and outside the barn, and there’ll be permanent security on site.  p 
 p Once the elephants are safely housed, a platform will also be built for visitors to safely watch elephants roaming freely and behaving as they would in the wild.  p 
 p We are urging any elephant owners to release their traumatised animals as soon as the sanctuary is able to welcome them.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Africa. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.or.ke " Africa website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Australia. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.au newsletter-sign" Australia website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have an office in Brazil. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.br " Brazil website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have an office in Canada. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.ca sign-our-e-newsletter" Canada website  a  instead.  p 
 p We have a local office in China. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.cn " China website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Denmark. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.dk " Denmark website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in India. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.in sign-our-newsletter" India website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Latin America. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.cr newsletter-sign" Latin America website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in the Netherlands. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.nl " Netherlands website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in New Zealand. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.nz newsletter-sign" New Zealand website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Sweden. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.se registrera-dig-vart-nyhetsbrev" Sweden website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in Thailand. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.or.th " Thailand website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in the UK. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org.uk " UK website  a  instead.  p 
 p class="delta" We have a local office in the US. Please sign up through our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.us.org sign-up-our-newsletter" US website  a  instead.  p 
 p style="font-size:0.75em" World Animal Protection will not sell or swap your information with any third party. If you’d like to stop hearing from us, or change the way we communicate, please email  a href="mailto:info@worldanimalprotection.org" info@worldanimalprotection.org  a . For information on how we use your details, and how we keep your details safe, please read our  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org privacy-policy" target="_blank" privacy policy  a .  p 
 p class="caption" Image credit: Dynamic Drones for Elephant Haven  p 
 p  strong Steve McIvor, our CEO, said:  strong  "As the long-awaited circus bans come into place across Europe, Elephant Haven is a desperately needed sanctuary where former circus elephants will be safely housed with a life they deserve.  p 
 p "These elephants have suffered a lifetime of misery, held in captivity and forced to endure cruel and intensive training to make them ‘safe’ to interact with people and entertain.  p 
 p "Denmark’s commitment to ban circus elephants is a huge victory for us and is part of a chain reaction across Europe to end the misery and suffering of these majestic animals. The best place to see an elephant is in the wild or, in the next best place, a genuine elephant sanctuary."  p 
 p  strong Tony Verhulst, co-founder of Elephant Haven said:  strong  "There is no place for elephants to retire in Europe and we are so pleased that we are giving them a safe haven.  p 
 p Retired elephants from circuses deserve a happy place to live out the rest of their lives. The elephants are our priority and we will work hard to keep them safe."  p 
 p Sign up to our mailing list and connect with us on social media. Together we are moving the world to protect animals.  p 
 p Get the latest news and blogs by email.  p 
 p Join in and take action on social media.  p 
 p  a class="social footer" href="https:  www.facebook.com WorldAnimalProtectionInt" rel="noopener" target="_blank"  i class="fa fa-facebook"  span Facebook  span   i   a   a class="social footer" href="https:  twitter.com movetheworld" rel="noopener" target="_blank"  i class="fa fa-twitter"  span Twitter  span   i   a   a class="social footer" href="https:  www.youtube.com AnimalProtection" rel="noopener" target="_blank"  i class="fa fa-youtube"  span  span Youtube  span   span   i   a  a class="social footer" href="https:  www.instagram.com world_animal_protection %20" rel="noopener" target="_blank"  i class="fa fa-instagram"  span  span Instagram  span   span   i   a   p 
