 p © naturepl.com   Andy Rouse   WWF  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong African Elephants are one of the most heavily poached mammals in the world. Historic and ongoing demand for ivory is the leading reason behind their slaughter, with habitat destruction, fragmentation and rapid human development posing significant threats also.  strong   p 
 p The African Elephant  em Loxodonta africana  em  occurs in 18 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, numbering an estimated 350,000 individuals across the continent. Although certain populations in Central Africa are deemed relatively secure, poaching between 2009–2016 saw a 30% reduction in population numbers. As illegal African ivory continues to flood into Asian markets, poaching still poses a severe threat to the survival of elephant populations across the continent.  p 
 p of African Elephants have been lost in the last decade  p 
 p African Elephants are poached on the continent every day  p 
 p of elephant tusks were seized in airports alone in 2016  p 
 p individuals are estimated to remain in the wild today  p 
 p  strong The closure of domestic ivory markets identified as being contributors to elephant poaching or illegal trade has long been a major conservation objective of TRAFFIC’s work.   strong   p 
 p Our offices and staff have made invaluable contributions to facilitating the closure or planned closure of domestic ivory markets in Thailand, mainland China, Japan and Hong Kong—all of which were singled out by TRAFFIC’s research and analysis as key areas of concern.  p 
 p However, market closures on their own will not stop poachers from killing elephants. A huge national and international commitment must be made by governments and enforcement agencies around the world to match the illicit innovation and determination of criminal syndicates.  p 
 p We are fighting for elephants by training enforcement and Customs agencies on the ground, analysing trade trends and international ivory seizures and advising governments and private companies on strengthened policy to curtail poaching and illegal trade.  p 
 p caption test  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p The global landscape for ivory trade has shifted dramatically following increased international attention to the decimation of many African Elephants populations. Since the year 2000, primary domestic ivory markets in several Asian countries have closed, with European and North American countries following suit.  p 
 p However, ongoing TRAFFIC investigations have revealed the displacement of such markets to neighbouring countries and territories, and even ivory processing, traditionally conducted in China, now occurring illegally in African nations to avoid detection in transit by enforcement agencies.  p 
 p  a class="btn white" href=" what-we-do perspectives the-ivory-trade " title="ivory trade policies" our ivory trade perspectives  a   p 
 p  strong China's domestic ivory ban came into force at the start of 2018; a move with the potential to significantly reduce ivory consumption in China and reverse devastating poaching in Africa.  strong   p 
 p The Chinese government successfully closed its ivory processing plants and ivory traders throughout the country, but questions still remain regarding its significant remaining ivory stockpiles and the displacement of illegal ivory trade to Hong Kong, Cambodia, Japan and Viet Nam.   p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" news chinas-ivory-trade-ban-workshop-held-on-the-achievement-and-challenges " china ivory ban  a   p 
 p The number of online monthly adverts observed between 2012-2016  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong Following mounting international pressure and consultation with TRAFFIC and other NGOs, Hong Kong's legislative panel voted in  a href=" news hong-kong-votes-to-impose-domestic-ivory-ban-by-2021 " favour of phasing out their domestic ivory market by 2021  a .  strong   p 
 p Although a promising move for elephant conservation, displaced ivory trade from mainland China continues to occur within the territory as criminal syndicates attempt to offload their stockpiles ahead of the domestic ban. Despite calls for a shorter timeframe, the phase-out remains on track for 2021, raising concerns it may reduce the consumer impact and message from mainland China's market move to close their ivory market.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" publications reports closing-strategy " title="Closing strategy: closing Hong Kong's ivory market" closing strategy  a   p 
 p Imports of worked and raw ivory for commercial purposes into Hong Kong, 2005–2014  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong Ivory has an deep-rooted significance within elements of Japanese culture. It remains one of the world’s largest domestic ivory markets, and is home to an active, though shrinking, ivory manufacturing industry.  strong   p 
 p  a href=" publications reports ivory-towers-japans-ivory-trade " A 2017 TRAFFIC report  a  revealed a significant illegal ivory export market where organised criminal networks and covert ivory vendors offload raw and worked ivory, as well as tusks, to mainland Asian nations. TRAFFIC is calling for the urgent closure of Japan's ivory market pursuant to CITES Resolution 10.10.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" publications reports ivory-towers-japans-ivory-trade " title="Japan's ivory market" japan's ivory market  a   p 
 p  strong Thailand was a prominent ivory market for years, serving as both a major consumer and transit hub for illegal trade.  strong   p 
 p The 13th CITES CoP in 2013 initiated a National Ivory Action Plan (NIAP) process; at the time Thailand was believed to be the largest unregulated ivory market in the world. Since then, and following passing the Elephant Ivory Act criminalising the sale of elephant ivory, TRAFFIC surveys have found a dramatic downturn in the amount of ivory openly for sale. While this is a positive move for African Elephants, continued law enforcement efforts are crucial to avoid a resurgence of illicit activity.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" publications reports in-transition-bangkoks-ivory-market " title="Bangkok's ivory market" Bangkok's ivory market  a   p 
 p Ivory bangles and pendants worn in Thailand © WWF   James Morgan  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong Other Southeast Asian countries including Viet Nam, Cambodia, Malaysia, and Laos have all been flagged as hubs of illegal ivory trade.  strong   p 
 p In 2016, five major seizures of ivory in Viet Nam flagged the nations significant role as a transit point with global illegal trade flows. Our subsequent monitoring and market surveys found illegal ivory as the most  a href=" publications reports viet-nam-online-a-rapid-assessment-of-e-commerce-wildlife-trade " title="Viet Nam online" regular illegal wildlife commodity for sale online  a . Malaysia is consistently used by traffickers as a transit hub for illegal ivory shipments inbound to Asia from Africa, with Customs authorities continuing to make regular seizures of ivory alongside other illegal wildlife products.  p 
 p Malaysian Customs reveal a seized shipment of elephant tusks © TRAFFIC  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p explore projects and recent publications related to our work within trade in elephant ivory.  p 
 p Explore the latest publications, reports and papers from  strong TRAFFIC   strong related to elephant conservation and trade in ivory.  p 
 p Visit our  a href=" publications " resource library  a  for the full  strong TRAFFIC   strong publication archive.  p 
 p Our USAID-funded Wildlife, Trafficking, Response, Assessment, and Priority Setting (Wildlife TRAPS) helps protect African Elephants through the provision of training, tools and forensics support to enforcement agencies, trade monitoring and analysis, and policy advice to governments.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" what-we-do projects-and-approaches education-and-outreach wildlife-traps " Wildlife TRAPS  a   p 
 p The Elephant Trade Information System is a TRAFFIC-managed database of elephant-related seizures and enforcement actions. It was mandated by CITES in 2002 and is still used to analyse illegal trade trends and identify countries territories of particular concern.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" what-we-do projects-and-approaches trade-monitoring elephant-trade-information-system " ETIS  a   p 
 p  strong TRAFFIC  strong  is a leading non-governmental organisation working exclusively on wildlife trade in the context of both biodiversity conservation and sustainable development. br  a href=" about-us our-mission " Find out more about us &gt;  a   p 
 p TRAFFIC is a registered UK charity, Number 1076722.  p 
 p Our headquarters are located at TRAFFIC, David Attenborough Building, Pembroke Street, Cambridge, CB2 3QZ  p 
 p class="copyright" ©2019 TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL. All rights reserved.  p 
 p Developed by Ian Kimber at Rochdale Online, designed by Marcus Cornthwaite.  p 
 p We use cookies to enhance the functionality of this website. To learn more about the types of cookies this website uses, see our  a href=" about-us our-organisation cookie-statement " Cookie Statement  a . You can accept cookies by clicking the "I accept" button or by cancelling this cookie notice; or you can manage your cookie preferences via "Manage Cookies".  p 
 p You can opt out of certain types of cookies (e.g. those used in social media sharing) by choosing "I do not accept".  The website will still largely function well, but with slightly less functionality in places. To manage your cookie preferences in future, visit the "Cookie Statement" link at the bottom of any page.  p 
