 p  strong Elephants  strong  are among the largest animals in the world. Tall, heavy, majestic and with huge ears, these animals carry imposing horns and it proves difficult for them to go unnoticed. But, have you ever wondered  strong where elephants live  strong ?  p 
 p Learn a little more about these magnificent  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com the-big-five-game-animals-of-africa-404.html" mammals  a , their distribution, what they feed on and the main reasons which are driving them towards extinction. For more, keep reading with us here at AnimalWised.  p 
 p Take a look at these  strong amazing elephants facts  strong ;  p 
 p There are two species of  strong African elephants  strong : the African bush elephant ( em Loxodonta africana  em ) and the African forest elephant ( em Loxodonta cyclotis  em ). Although both live in Africa, they are distributed in different areas:  p 
 p There is only one species of  strong Asian elephant  strong  ( em Elephas maximus  em ) which is made up of  strong three subspecies  strong : the Sri Lankan elephant ( em Elephas maximus maximus  em ), the Sumatran elephant ( em Elephas maximus sumatranus  em ) and the Indian elephant ( em Elephas maximus indicus  em ).  p 
 p These species measure up to 3 meters in height, weighing up to 5 tons. They are considered to be incredibly peaceful and sociable animals.In addition, they are considered incredibly  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com sacred-animals-in-hinduism-601.html" sacred animals  a  in India.  strong Asian elephants  strong  are distributed in several countries over the relevant continent, such as Sri Lanka and Sumatra: hence their given names. They are also distributed over Nepal, India, Indochina, Borneo and Thailand. They prefer to live in areas covered with tropical forest, where it is easier for them to camouflage themselves within the surrounding vegetation.  p 
 p Although popularly known as an elephant, the truth is that this marine species does not bear any relationship to the aforementioned terrestrial mammal. The genus  em Mirounga  em  includes  strong two species  strong : the northern elephant seal ( em Mirounga angustirostris  em ) and the southern elephant seal ( em Mirounga leonina  em ).  p 
 p Elephant seals first inhabited the colder areas of North America, specifically, the surrounding Alaskan waters. The southern elephant seal, however, is distributed among the Patagonian coasts, which includes; Australia, the Maldives and Argentina.  p 
 p This species has been dubbed with its ‘‘elephant’’ name, due to its appearance. They, like elephants, have thick gray skin and can weigh up to a ton. Due to its large size, elephant seals have few predators, but at times, female and babies fall victims to sharks. Like other saltwater animals, strong  elephant seals  strong  spend most of their lives in water. However, during their breeding season, they prefer to relocate to coasts, where they are able to mate and care for the young.  p 
 p Terrestrial elephants, such as the African and Asian elephant, are  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com herbivorous-animals-examples-and-fun-facts-301.html" herbivores  a . This means that they live on; leaves, herbs, barks and stems. An  strong adult elephant  strong  needs to consume a large amount of food daily in order to survive. Adult elephants can ingest up to 200 kilograms of plant, daily. These elephants also choose to live in areas where water is easily accessible, for both drinking and bathing purposes. Elephants can consume up to 200 liters of water a day.  p 
 p  strong Sea elephants  strong  feed on fish, crustaceans and other types of sea animals, such as: squid, sharks and rays.  p 
 p Many people are often confused as to how such a large animal can be in  strong danger of extinction  strong . The truth is that elephants are endangered as a consequence of human action as one of the main threats to elephants is illegal hunting.  p 
 p For centuries,  strong ivory  strong  (which forms elephant tusks) has been considered a material of great value. Poachers are therefore predominantly responsible for elephant assassination, as they kill these animals in the name of money driven profit. Unethical hunting also comes in the form of excursions; where the only objective is to hunt elephants for ‘fun’ or, as a sport. Such practices have had a major impact of elephant excitation, where sadly now there are less than 1 million elephant species left in the world.  p 
 p While there are sanctuaries created to protect these mammals, the lack of conscience when it comes to their general safety by others holds responsibility for the reduction in their numbers.  p 
 p In addition to illegal hunting, we can include the destruction of their habitat. Due to this destruction, we (humans) force elephants to migrate un-instinctively. This is a process in which not all members of the herd survive, since food and water becomes scarce.  p 
 p If you want to read similar articles to  strong Where Do Elephants Live?  strong , we recommend you visit our  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com fun-facts facts-about-the-animal-kingdom" class="ga" data-category="Post" data-event="categoria ultimo paso" Facts about the animal kingdom  a  category.  p 
