 p We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audience is coming from. To find out more or to opt-out, please read our  a href="https:  www.voxmedia.com pages cookie-policy" Cookie Policy  a . In addition, please read our  a href="https:  www.voxmedia.com pages privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a , which has also been updated and became effective May 23rd, 2018.  p 
 p By choosing  b I Accept  b , you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  p 
 p id="U1jVrj" Here’s a seemingly simple question: Is it legal to bring elephant body parts collected in hunting exhibitions in Africa back to the United States?  p 
 p id="oxHFUV" During the Obama administration, the answer became a clear “no” — the import of elephant trophies was banned outright under the Endangered Species Act. But in November, President Trump’s US Fish and Wildlife Service  a href="https:  www.vox.com science-and-health 2017 11 21 16670006 elephant-trophy-hunting-trump-explained" announced it was  a  set to lift the ban. Hunting groups like the National Rifle Association and the Safari Club International Foundation, which had opposed the ban, were  a href="https:  www.safariclub.org what-we-do media press-room press-release sci-ushers-in-new-era-for-hunting" thrilled  a  by the news.   p 
 p id="u1qexM" But after a flood of criticism (including from conservatives), Trump himself suddenly was not.   p 
 p id="A7ot6n" In a tweet, Trump announced that the lifting of the ban was on hold, pending further review. In a follow-up tweet, he went on to say  a href="https:  twitter.com realDonaldTrump status 932397369655808001"  strong he’d   strong   a “be very hard pressed to change my mind that this horror show in any way helps conservation of Elephants or any other animal.”   p 
 p lang="en" dir="ltr" Put big game trophy decision on hold until such time as I review all conservation facts. Under study for years. Will update soon with Secretary Zinke. Thank you!  p 
 p id="XBvdmU" So are elephant trophies still banned then?   p 
 p id="A2cEPN" Here’s the latest:   p 
 p id="jMH2IH" This week, Fish and Wildlife has decided, in response to a lawsuit from hunting advocates and the NRA, to allow the import of trophies  a href="https:  www.fws.gov international pdf memo-withdrawal-of-certain-findings-ESA-listed-species-sport-hunted-trophies.pdf" on a case-by-case basis.  a  Hunters argue that the trophies actually aid in elephant conservation: The fees they pay to governments for the permits to hunt are supposed to be fed back into conservation efforts. And in its latest memo, Fish and Wildlife says that the case-by-case decisions will be determined “to ensure that the [hunting] program is promoting the conservation of the species.”   p 
 p id="RlFPbs" So why is this happening? In December, a federal appeals court ruled on a suit brought by the NRA and the Safari Club arguing that the Obama administration had not followed the exact letter of the law when  a href="https:  www.cadc.uscourts.gov internet opinions.nsf B1CC447E18C6CB95852581FE0055A684 %24file 16-5358-1710175.pdf" creating the regulation  a  that banned the trophies. Specifically, the judge said it didn’t go through the usual lengthy rulemaking process that involves a period of public comment.   p 
 p id="bNbFre" Because of the decision on the case, Fish and Wildlife says, it’s lifting the Obama-era ban and moving to this “case-by-case” evaluation of permits instead.   p 
 p id="TrBYFJ" It will be interesting to see how the president responds, since he has publicly disagreed with hunting advocates and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, the uberboss of Fish and Wildlife, on this issue. It is also unclear to what degree the White House was involved in the latest announcement. Fish and Wildlife released its latest decision without much fanfare. We’ll have to wait and see if Trump himself wades back into the issue.   p 
 p id="OlvpUj" Since the Trump administration certainly hasn’t been telling much of a coherent story on elephant hunting, it’s worth revisiting the facts. Does the hunting actually help elephants?  Here’s what we know.   p 
 p id="4W4QGC" There used to be 10 million elephants in Africa  a href="http:  www.greatelephantcensus.com background-on-conservation " in the early 1900s  a . Today there are just a few hundred thousand, and their numbers are still declining. African elephants are protected under the Endangered Species Act as a threatened species and are listed as vulnerable (which is between “near-threatened” and “endangered”) on the  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki International_Union_for_Conservation_of_Nature" International Union for Conservation of Nature  a ’s Red List of the conservation status of animals.  p 
 p id="WHIMla" Though the populations are greatly diminished across the continent, they are not direly small. There are an  a href="https:  elephant-atlas.org country 20" estimated  a  82,000 elephants in Zimbabwe,  a href="https:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 08 wildlife-african-elephants-population-decrease-great-elephant-census ?_ga=2.248244359.1085704747.1511201275-1857264122.1447802353" down 10 percent since 2005  a .  p 
 p id="VWd8zt" Normally the Endangered Species Act would prevent any trade of a protected animal’s carcass. But there’s an exception. If, according to  a href="https:  www.gpo.gov fdsys pkg CFR-2016-title50-vol2 xml CFR-2016-title50-vol2-sec17-40.xml" Title 50  a , “the killing of the trophy animal will enhance the survival of the species,” the animal can be permitted to be imported — though no more than two per year, per hunter. (The import of trophies had been  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com news animalia wp 2017 11 15 trophies-from-elephant-hunts-in-zimbabwe-were-banned-in-the-u-s-trump-just-reversed-that ?utm_term=.6cc3e6840b78" allowed  a  from South Africa and Namibia.)  p 
 p id="bpmtts" Yes, on the face of it, the argument doesn’t make any sense: How can condoning the killing of animals actually aid their survival?   p 
 p id="KMQEEE" The thrust of the argument: There are Americans who are willing to pay exorbitant sums for the chance to kill one of these creatures. That money then can be put toward conservation efforts that protect the remaining herd. These trips can cost  a href="https:  www.usatoday.com story news nation 2013 01 25 exotic-game-hunts-costs 1864667 " upward of $20,000  a . National Geographic documents one elephant hunt that over the course of 14 days  a href="https:  www.nationalgeographic.com magazine 2017 10 trophy-hunting-killing-saving-animals " cost $80,000  a . In Zimbabwe, the “trophy fee” — the administrative cost to kill one elephant —  a href="http:  abcnews.go.com US hunting-elephants-conserve-species story?id=51194213" is $14,500  a .  p 
 p id="qeEHqH" That’s no small donation to conservation efforts. That money pays for law enforcement to stop poachers and better track elephant populations (not to mention the tourism dollars that support local economies).  p 
 p id="kNCySI" A big one is that the countries that allow for elephant hunting, like Zimbabwe, are often caught up in political unrest. Political turmoil in areas  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com news animalia wp 2017 11 15 trophies-from-elephant-hunts-in-zimbabwe-were-banned-in-the-u-s-trump-just-reversed-that ?utm_term=.6cc3e6840b78" notorious for corruption  a  does not make for a compelling setting for environmental conservation.   p 
 p id="3HRTka" The money-raising schemes sound okay on paper, but in practice, they don’t always work out so cleanly. As the Humane Society  a href="https:  blog.humanesociety.org wayne 2017 11 interior-department-allow-imports-elephant-lion-trophies-africa-reversing-obama-policies.html" notes  a , “it was Zimbabwe where Walter Palmer shot  a href="https:  www.vox.com 2015 7 28 9064325 cecil-the-lion" Cecil  a , one of the most beloved and well-studied African lions, who was lured out of a national park for the killing.”   p 
 p id="Z1fJFI" And there’s not great evidence that this conservation tactic works. For its October issue, National Geographic investigated the claim that hunting helps conserve threatened animals. Tanzania lost two-thirds of its lions from 1993 to 2014, despite a trophy hunting program. Overall, reporter Michael Paterniti  a href="https:  www.nationalgeographic.com magazine 2017 10 trophy-hunting-killing-saving-animals " found  a , “what happens to the hunters’ fees ... is notoriously hard to pin down — and impossible in kleptocracies.”  p 
 p class="c-newsletter_signup_box__blurb" The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.  p 
