 p In a village in Vietnam's "elephant kingdom", a vendor holds up a severed, dried tail dotted with coarse hairs she promises will bring good luck -– a grim new trade that is endangering the country's few remaining elephants.
                                  p 
 p "I'll cut a  a href="https:  phys.org tags hair " rel="tag" class="textTag" hair  a  off right in front of you here, so you can be sure it's not fake," said the saleswoman in Tri A village in the country's forested central highlands.     p 
 p A fondness for rings and bracelets embedded with elephant hairs is fuelling a worrying fashion fad in a country notorious for its illicit wildlife trade, from rhino horns to pangolin scales, tiger teeth and bear bile.  p 
 p The trend is putting a strain on the few surviving elephants in Vietnam whose hairs are plucked or tails cut off by poachers, leaving the animals without the crucial appendage used to swat flies and keep their backsides clean.  p 
 p "The tail is very much a part of body hygiene, so by plucking the hairs out... or cutting the entire lower  a href="https:  phys.org tags tail " rel="tag" class="textTag" tail  a  off, you're putting a handicap on your elephant," Dionne Slagter, Animal Welfare Manager at Animals Asia, told AFP.  p 
 p With just 80 elephants left in captivity and about 100 in the wild—down from as many as 2,000 in 1990—Slagter suspects most of the tails are being smuggled in from neighbouring countries or as far afield as Africa.  p 
 p The appetite for elephant parts is a cruel trend familiar to much of the region.  p 
 p In nearby Myanmar elephants are killed to feed a growing demand at home and in China for their skin, believed to cure eczema or acne.  p 
 p Loss of habitat and poaching has also badly dented elephant numbers in Thailand, Cambodia and Laos, where they were worshipped for centuries.  p 
 p In Vietnam too, the M'nong and Ede ethnic minorities in Dak Lak province—dubbed the "elephant kingdom" for the large herds that once roamed its forests –- hold a deep spiritual reverence for the animals.    p 
 p As legend goes, finding a  a href="https:  phys.org tags tail+hair " rel="tag" class="textTag" tail hair  a  by chance on the forest floor was considered good luck—local lore that has been peddled in recent years by shop owners selling the strands, along with ivory jewellery and Buddha statues that can fetch up to $900.    p 
 p But actively cutting off tails or plucking hairs was never part of the tradition.    p 
 p "They loved and considered  a href="https:  phys.org tags elephants " rel="tag" class="textTag" elephants  a  part of their family so they wouldn't do anything to hurt them," according to Linh Nga Nie Kdam, a researcher on Ede culture. "They never sold their hair."  p 
 p  figure class="image-block" 
     div class="image-block-ins" 
                                     a rel="lightbox" href="https:  3c1703fe8d.site.internapcdn.net newman gfx news 2018 daklakprovin.jpg" title='Dak Lak province was dubbed the "elephant kingdom" for the large herds that once roamed its forests' 
                     img src="https:  3c1703fe8d.site.internapcdn.net newman csz news 800 2018 daklakprovin.jpg" alt="Dak Lak province was dubbed the &amp;quot;elephant kingdom&amp;quot; for the large herds that once roamed its forests" 
                  a 
                          div 
         figcaption class="image-block-caption" 
        Dak Lak province was dubbed the "elephant kingdom" for the large herds that once roamed its forests
      figcaption   figure 
                                                                  p 
 p class="news-relevant" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org WebPage" 
                                         a href="#" id="inl-rel-href"  img class="toolsicon ic-rel" src="https:  cf3e497594.site.internapcdn.net tmpl v5 img 1x1.gif" width="14" height="16" alt=""   a 
                                         b Explore further:  b  
                                         a itemprop="relatedLink" href="https:  phys.org news 2018-09-elephants-ivory-botswana.html" Nearly 100 elephants killed for ivory in Botswana (Update)  a 
                                      p 
 p 
                                            © 2018 AFP
                                         br   p 
 p Ninety elephant carcasses have been discovered in Botswana with their tusks hacked off, a charity said Tuesday, in what is believed to be one of Africa's worst mass poaching sprees.  p 
 p A pygmy elephant was shot dead on Borneo island after it destroyed villagers' crops, a Malaysian wildlife official said Thursday, the latest of the endangered creatures to be killed.  p 
 p (AP)—Myanmar's forestry department has captured a rare white elephant in the jungles of the country's western Ayeyarwaddy region, an official said Sunday.  p 
 p A report by a British-based conservation group says rising Chinese demand for products made from elephant skin is driving poaching and posing an even greater threat to Asia's wild herds than the ivory trade.  p 
 p Baby elephant Gold has come a long way since he was found trapped in a well in central Vietnam earlier this year.  p 
 p Poachers have killed nearly half of Mozambique's elephants for their ivory in the past five years, the US based Wildlife Conservation Society said Tuesday.  p 
 p Blue-blooded and armored with 10 spindly legs, horseshoe crabs have perhaps always seemed a bit out of place.  p 
 p As the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the globe, permafrost, land ice and sea ice are disappearing at unprecedented rates. And these changes not only affect the infrastructure, economies and cultures of the Arctic, ...  p 
 p Researchers at Delft University of Technology have created a quantum circuit to listen to the weakest radio signal allowed by quantum mechanics. This new quantum circuit opens the door to possible future applications in areas ...  p 
 p Located in the constellation of Hercules, about 230 million light-years away, NGC 6052 is a pair of colliding galaxies. They were first discovered in 1784 by William Herschel and were originally classified as a single irregular ...  p 
 p SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, completing a NASA demonstration mission that paves the way for the resumption of manned space flights from the US.  p 
 p Stars over eight times more massive than the sun end their lives in supernovae explosions. The composition of the star influences what happens during the explosion.  p 
 p Some species of Euglenids, a diversified family of aquatic unicellular organisms, can perform large-amplitude, elegantly coordinated body deformations. Although this behavior has been known for centuries, its function is ...  p 
 p 
                        Please  a href="https:  sciencex.com profile login " sign in  a  to add a comment.
                        Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
                         a href="https:  sciencex.com help account " Read more  a 
                  p 
 p  input type="email" required="" placeholder="email" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="email" name="email" 
                                  p 
 p  input type="password" required="" placeholder="password" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="passwd" name="passwd" 
                                 input type="hidden" value="login" name="status" 
    
                                  p 
 p 
                                         span class="float-right" id="cmPrThr"   span 
                                         input type="submit" value="Sign in" name="loginsubmit" id="login-submit" class="com-button" 
                                  p 
 p class="centered" Enter your Science X account credentials  p 
 p Connect  p 
 p class="copyright" © Phys.org 2003 - 2019,  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  sciencex.com " Science X network  a   p 
