 p class="sr-only" id="srinstruct10523958" Space to play or pause, M to mute, left and right arrows to seek, up and down arrows for volume.  p 
 p A big international conference was held in South Africa to try to better protect endangered species around the world. Elephants were high on the agenda because they are hunted for their ivory tusks. Unfortunately, no new decisions were made so we decided to take a look at some of the ways rangers in Africa are already stopping poachers now.  p 
 p 1. Explain the Elephant Poaching story to another student.  p 
 p 2. Where do the kids in the BtN story live?  p 
 p 3. There are less than 500,000 African elephants left in the wild. True or false?  p 
 p 4. About how many elephants are killed by poachers each year?  p 
 p 5. Why are they killed?  p 
 p 6. Finish the following sentence: Ivory is used to make...  p 
 p 7. What are authorities using to spot poaching groups from the sky?  p 
 p 8. How are dogs being used to help stop elephant poaching?  p 
 p 9. Which country has announced a total ban on the sale of all ivory?  p 
 p 10. What do you understand more clearly since watching this story?  p 
 p Elephants are in danger because many people poach them for their ivory. I hope that all the countries can announce a total ban on the sale of all ivory to protect the elephants. em  - Jack  em   p 
 p Elephants are in danger because many people poach them for their ivory. I hope that all the countries can announce a total ban on the sale of all ivory to protect the elephants. em  - Yuchen  em   p 
 p The fact that people are killing animals for their ivery is horrible. I hope poeple put a stop to this and put a complete ban on elephant poaching🙁. em  - Chazzer  em   p 
 p I think that this is a sad matter and they should keep protecting these beautiful animals em  - Riley  em   p 
 p I think African elephants should be protected as all elephants. Everyone should be part of it. Dogs should still track down the hunters to protect the elephants. em  - Liam  em   p 
 p These beautiful creatures don't deserve to be killed for their tusks.  p 
 p it's like killing us for our bones! Even though elephants look and sound different, they still have feelings. They should respected like they're humans! em  - Freya  em   p 
 p Elephants shouldn't be treated that way. Their tusks aren't really worth anything, they're beautiful creatures so they should be treated with respect and politeness!!! em  - Grace  em   p 
 p I believe elephants should be kept safe and protected by poachers. they should get the same amount of care,respect and safety em  - Derik  em   p 
 p I don't know why they have to kill elephants just to get their tusks. em  - Mikayla  em   p 
 p I think we shouldn't poach elephants because they are the same as humans and they have feelings, we should just use the resources we already have. em  - Audrey  em   p 
 p I don't think that we should use elephant tusks for jewellery and just kill them for that reason! em  - Island  em   p 
 p I think the elephants should NOT be poached and if you want to poach something, poach YOUR-SELF!!!!!!!!!! em  - Kristian.D  em   p 
 p I think people that kill elephants are just mean and selfish  p 
 p  :( em  - LUKE  em   p 
 p Even though this has been going on for a long time it is still very hard to believe. It's a good thing people are taking action but some people get away with it which is horribly unacceptable. These majestic creatures deserve to live. em  - Jolie  em   p 
 p I think that elephants are creatures that are natural and they have no right to be killed in any way or harmed by poachers they are in people's dreams so NO MORE POACHING!! em  - Constance  em   p 
 p I hate the poaching that's going on! Why can't people just stop this!? em  - Jas  em   p 
 p I think elephant very smart. It is very useful to tranport and entertainment. So elephant poaching must be stopped completely. em  - Farha  em   p 
 p I thank elephants are smart animals. He feels sad and happy .   p 
 p We must protect and preserve the integrity of the largest animal. em  - Dheyaa  em   p 
 p I feel sad about the elephant so I want stopped the poaching . em  - Sarah  em   p 
 p I like elephant. I think elephants are smart animals. They can do a lot of work in transport, entertainment(circus). So elephant poaching should be stopped completely. em  - Sangeetha  em   p 
 p I think there is no reson to kill this good nice calm animal . em  - hiyam  em   p 
 p I think an elephants are smart animals. they are very useful to human, they can do a lot of work in "transport","entertainment"(circus)... So, elephant poaching must be stop.  p 
 p Nikita from nevitas Liverpool. em  - Nikita  em   p 
 p I think elephent are smart animals  p 
 p And they can do alot of work so stop poaching the elephant because is useful for people. em  - Dina  em   p 
 p I think you should stop poaching,it is very bad for animals..l'm very sad...I'm a student navitas English Liverpool em  - Douangxomphou Xayavong  em   p 
 p I think elephants are so intelligence animals. They can do a lot of work and its so big nice animals. em  - soneya  em   p 
 p I think the whole world must take some steps to prevent poaching.... not just elephants but all other animal species... because they are killing the blessings of the earh.... HAGOP FROM NAVITAS LIVERPOOL em  - Hagop  em   p 
 p I feel really sad to hear about this.the elephant are very innocent.they can do a lot of things. But now many counties take many steps to stop elephant poaching .and its really a good step to save elephant. em  - Faria  em   p 
 p I think, they should increase the penalties for poarchers. em  - janavi  em   p 
 p I think the whole world must take steps to prevent poaching... not just elephants but all other animals too.. because they are killing the blessings of the earth... em  - Hagop  em   p 
 p They shouldn't throw out the ivory sell it for good and then put out a jail sentence for poachers em  - Kyle  em   p 
 p I'm glad that people are helping the elephants so the elephants population won't go down and it's sad that the poachers are killing them and getting there Ivory.just so we can make stuff out there Ivory.and it is so cool that they have drones to see where the poachers are. And keep the elephants safe. em  - Kadi  em   p 
 p I don't think it's a good to kill those harmless beutiful nice calm elephants JUST LEAVE THOSE ANIMALS alone you wouldn't like to be killed or your family be killed for something you have so don't do the same please stop being creul #savetheelephants ! em  - Hayden  em   p 
 p I thing this is really stupid to kill elephants when they are one of the best animals ever. em  - Omar  em   p 
 p I think that poaching should be illegal. It is quite interesting how they get the dogs to find poachers. People in the next generation should get to see these amazing creatures. em  - Michelle  em   p 
 p It is ridiculous that poor and innocent animals that roam our world are killed by selfish humans that want to sell the tusks as jewellery or medicine. The difference between how many elephants are killed because of humans compared to the other way around is massive. Just plain selfishness from us humans! em  - Alana  em   p 
 p In the old days poachers would cut elephant tusks so close to the root of the tusks, the elephant ended up dying. I think that that's cruel, because elephant are living beings, just like us and deserve a right to life. em  - Thimuthu  em   p 
 p I honestly think it's super cruel to kill elephants just for their tusks, elephants deserve a better life. It is amazing that the drones are able to track down the poachers to keep the elephants safe. I'm glad people are willing to do this for the elephants well being. em  - Charlize  em   p 
 p I don't understand why this is still happening. I'm glad people are trying to stop It but soon enough the number of elephants left are going to get smaller. em  - Tristan  em   p 
 p I think they should stop poaching, not just elephants, but other animals too. em  - Melody  em   p 
 p I think that hunting and killing African elephants for their ivery tusks should be ilegal because African elephants are losing there population and are suffering just for people to get money! em  - Amelia  em   p 
 p I think it's as simple as they shouldn't poach elephants, it's just not right. em  - Riley  em   p 
 p I think everyone should just leave the elephants and their tusks alone and find something else to make jewellery and other things out of. em  - Katt  em   p 
 p I think that killing elephants should be illegal because elephants have  p 
 p done nothing to us to make us kill them. em  - Georgia  em   p 
 p I think it's horrible that people are doing this just for some jewelry. In my opinion it's just like trading an innocent life for something you wear on your body. em  - Zac  em   p 
 p it is terrible how they are killing elephants for basically only money but its nice how people are making a cause to stop all the elephant hunters em  - Nathan H  em   p 
 p I find this very upsetting. elephants are on of my favourite animals and I want to keep the safe   p 
 p  em  - chloe c  em   p 
 p I think it's mean that people just kill them for the tusk em  - james  em   p 
 p I agree with US, China &amp; #38; Kenya with a ivory selling ban. I think Elephants should be left alone and not be killed for their tusks. em  - Joel  em   p 
 p NO MORE IVORY. These beautiful creatures don't deserve to be killed for their tusks. Elephants are a great creature and should not be hunted!!!!!! em  - Mitchell  em   p 
 p i belive it is a bad move to let Elephants ivory be sold because it will encourage poachers to collect more of it  p 
 p  em  - Jack M  em   p 
 p I think it will be very hard to completely stop poaching elephants because they will still be able to sell it in secret but I also think it is a great start. em  - Caitlin  em   p 
 p I think that people should stop poaching and think that if you where killed just to get a arm or a leg or even one toe or finger you wouldn't like it even though your dead i think that we should stop it completely em  - Tiana  em   p 
 p I think it is horrible that people are poaching elephants, I mean why can't you just take the ivory off elephants that are already dead?!?! em  - Brianna  em   p 
 p I don't think that the selling ivory will work very well... em  - Keona  em   p 
 p I blame whoever came up with using ivory for this as if they had't started it it wouldn't be a thing today em  - Callum  em   p 
 p LIVE ON that is what should be happening with elephants   p 
 p  em  - lilli  em   p 
 p I think that more needs to be done to help save African elephants and also in all countries I believe that selling elephant tusks should be illegal. em  - Jake  em   p 
 p Seeing a elephant would be cool, but killing them for ivory things is rude. em  - Jade  em   p 
 p I love elephants  p 
 p  em  - BRAD  em   p 
 p This is a very sad story makes me hate poachers em  - Coober  em   p 
 p The tactics that were used to catch the poaches were interesting, like the drones. It was devastating to hear the decrease to lower than 500,000 elephants. I wonder what will they do next to catch the poachers? em  - Theo  em   p 
 p I really think it's amazing that the dogs are trained to sniff out poachers. I also think that the poachers shouldn't poach because it's just cruel. I think everyone should just throw out elephants tusks em  - Rylan  em   p 
 p We are reading Danny and Danny's dad is a poacher. It is a very good book you should read it! em  - Makayla  em   p 
 p Elephant poaching is very mean. An I am so happy that the dogs can be there. I feel very sorry for those poor thing. em  - Darcy  em   p 
 p That's very bad em  - Madeline  em   p 
 p I think it's sad people do that to elephants. em  - Poppy  em   p 
 p i think poaching is horrible! I think selling their ivory is pointless. IT'S ANIMAL CRUELTY!!!! it just makes me feel so sorry for the elephants. they are living things too! i hope that it ends soon... em  - Amy  em   p 
 p It's wrong. No lie. Elephant Poaching should be illegal.. No one should be killing elephants, like I said' MAKE THINGS RIGHT! SO  p 
 p DOWN POACHERS!!!!!!!!!  p 
 p  em  - James  em   p 
 p I don't like the story because killing elephants is bad. There are only 500 000 wild elephants left in the world and that is not good. Poachers ( illegal hunters) have been killing  p 
 p  25 000 to 30 000 elephants each year. em  - Joshua  em   p 
 p I think that the ivory trade should be illegal. The poachers don't even use the elephant meat. All they use is the tusks. I think it is extreme animal cruelty. em  - Cohan  em   p 
 p For these guys, it's not unusual to spot an elephant in some unexpected places.  p 
 p    p 
 p BOY: It's quite cool unless they try to break through your gates  p 
 p    p 
 p BOY: It's just very nice being around them and you hear them communicate with each other.  p 
 p    p 
 p BOY: We had a school tour for my class and we were actually charged by an elephant! Luckily the bus was able to get away fast enough.  p 
 p    p 
 p These kids live in South Africa, where millions of Elephants used to roam but today there are less than 500,000 African Elephants left in the wild. And one of the reasons for that is poachers, who kill around 25,000 to 30,000 each year for their ivory tusks.  p 
 p Ivory is highly valued in some cultures and can be worth thousands of dollars. It's used to make things like jewellery and ornaments or it can be eaten, in the belief it has healing properties. The fact that elephants are being killed for these reasons is really frustrating for these guys.  p 
 p GIRL: I just hate the fact that they're getting poached. It annoys me so much  p 
 p    p 
 p GIRL: It makes me feel sad and angry at the same time.   p 
 p But authorities are trying to find a way to stop poachers in their tracks and they're already using some pretty interesting tactics. Like using drones to spot poaching groups from the sky, creating protected reserves where elephants can roam free and their secret weapon - dogs.  p 
 p Meet the canine elephant protection unit, a tough group of super sniffing dogs taking poaching into their own hands... uh I mean paws. These daredevil dogs have been trained to sniff out poachers and they aren't afraid to take to the sky, to chase down the bad guys.   p 
 p But some countries, like Kenya, want to do even more to protect elephants. So they've announced a total ban on the sale of all ivory in the country. The two biggest ivory markets, China and the US, have also announced a near-total ban on ivory sales too.   p 
 p But some countries say they'd prefer to go the opposite way. Namibia and Zimbabwe say they want to be able to sell the ivory that they've confiscated off poachers and use the money to fund elephant conservation projects. But many conservationists say that selling ivory is a bad move, even if it's for a good cause, because it might encourage people to illegally hunt elephants for more.  p 
 p While world leaders may not be able to agree on the right way to stop the illegal ivory trade. Most countries agree that more needs to be done to protect these amazing creatures and that's something these kids hope happens sooner rather than later.  p 
 p GIRL: It would make me feel sad cause in the future other people won't get to see elephants  p 
 p GIRL: They mean a lot to me, cause ,well they're just so amazing they're just really brilliant creatures.  p 
 p Authorities in Kenya, Africa have been fighting poachers and the illegal wildlife trade for decades. Last week they took the dramatic step of burning more than 100 tonnes of elephant tusks they'd seized. Their aim was to send a message to the world. But some think they may have made a mistake.  p 
 p A massive hurricane called Matthew hit Haiti recently. Right now the immediate danger is over and the whole country is trying its best to recover. We found out what help is heading their way.  p 
 p This year's focus of National Children's Week is Article 17 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. You probably don't know what that is off the top of your head but it's incredibly important and it's actually one of the reasons that BtN even exists!  p 
 p A big international conference was held in South Africa to try to better protect endangered species around the world. Elephants were high on the agenda because they are hunted for their ivory tusks. Unfortunately, no new decisions were made so we decided to take a look at some of the ways rangers in Africa are already stopping poachers now.  p 
 p How long do you expect to live for? 100 years? 200? Even 300? Well scientists say that despite our rapidly improving medical technology, humans still may not be able to live past 115 on average.  p 
 p The new women's AFL competition has held its first draft. But on the same day, a campaign was launched to demand that the players selected be paid more for their efforts. The AFL has offered a minimum of $5000 a season. But some people say it should be much more.  p 
 p Our preferred method of contact for all story pitches, rookie reports, feedback and enquiries is via our  a href=" btn contact-us " target="_self" title="" contact form  a .  p 
 p Telephone: (08) 8343 4641  p 
 p Post: Behind the News, 85 North East Road, Collinswood 5081  p 
 p BTN Newsbreak: Weekdays, 6:25pm br BTN Classroom: Tuesday, 10am br BTN Specials: Wednesday, 10:30am br BTN Repeat: Thursday, 10:30am  p 
 p BTN Listen: Each day after school  p 
 p Ask A Reporter: Fridays 2.15pm (AEST)  p 
