 p Defenders of Wildlife is working through the  a href="http:  www.defenders.org international-conservation importance-cites" Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species  a  (CITES) to maintain a ban on the sale of ivory as well as on regulations that govern worldwide elephant protection.  p 
 p Of the two species, African elephants are divided into two subspecies (savannah and forest), while the Asian elephant is divided into four subspecies (Sri Lankan, Indian, Sumatran and Borneo). Asian elephants have been very important to Asian culture for thousands of years – they have been domesticated and are used for religious festivals, transportation and to move heavy objects.  p 
 p  strong Staples:  strong  Grasses, leaves, bamboo, bark, roots. Elephants are also known to eat crops like banana and sugarcane which are grown by farmers. Adult elephants eat 300-400 lbs of food per day.  p 
 p At the turn of the 20th century, there were a few million African elephants and about 100,000 Asian elephants. Today, there are an estimated 450,000 - 700,000 African elephants and between 35,000 - 40,000 wild Asian elephants.  p 
 p African savannah elephants are found in  a href="http:  www.defenders.org grasslands tropical-grasslands" savannah  a  zones in 37 countries south of the Sahara Desert. African forest elephants inhabit the dense  a href="http:  www.defenders.org forest basic-facts" rainforests  a  of west and central Africa. The Asian elephant is found in India, Sri Lanka, China and much of Southeast Asia.  p 
 p Elephants form deep family bonds and live in tight matriarchal family groups of related females called a herd. The herd is led by the oldest and often largest female in the herd, called a matriarch. Herds consist of 8-100 individuals depending on terrain and family size. When a calf is born, it is raised and protected by the whole matriarchal herd. Males leave the family unit between the ages of 12-15 and may lead solitary lives or live temporarily with other males.  p 
 p Elephants are extremely intelligent animals and have memories that span many years. It is this memory that serves matriarchs well during dry seasons when they need to guide their herds, sometimes for tens of miles, to watering holes that they remember from the past. They also display signs of grief, joy, anger and play.  p 
 p Recent discoveries have shown that elephants can communicate over long distances by producing a sub-sonic rumble that can travel over the ground faster than sound through air. Other elephants receive the messages through the sensitive skin on their feet and trunks. It is believed that this is how potential mates and social groups communicate.  p 
 p  strong Mating Season:  strong  Mostly during the rainy season. br  strong Gestation:  strong  22 months. br  strong Litter size:  strong  1 calf (twins rare). br 
	Calves weigh between 200-250 lbs at birth. At birth, a calf's trunk has no muscle tone, therefore it will suckle through its mouth. It takes several months for a calf to gain full control of its trunk.  p 
 p  strong Height:   strong 5-14 ft at shoulders (males); females of all subspecies are smaller than males. br  strong Length:  strong  Up to 30 ft trunk to tail. br  strong Weight:  strong  6,000-15,000 lbs (males). br 
	Lifespan Up to 70 years.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
