 p  strong Botswana has some of the last remaining free-roaming populations of wild animals on the planet.  strong   p 
 p Massive breeding herds of elephants are known to move thousands of kilometres across the country’s wild lands, through private farms, national parks, towns and deep into neighbouring countries too. It’s a picture of Africa that one reads about in the history books.  p 
 p The town of  a href="https:  www.google.co.za search?espv=210&amp;es_sm=91&amp;q=chobe+national+park&amp;spell=1&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=NOOmUq-6Nc-ThQfHsID4BA&amp;ved=0CCsQvwUoAA#es_sm=91&amp;espv=210&amp;q=Kasane" Kasane  a  borders the  a href="http:  www.africaalbidatourism.com africa chobe" Chobe National Park  a  in the North of Botswana, and regularly sees all kinds of wildlife pass through, including lion, buffalo, hyena and even the rare sable antelope. This is one of the few places where human infrastructure still grows within these functioning ancient wildlife home ranges  p 
 p As human populations develop and pressure grows on the environment, it’s natural to presume that wildlife will get squeezed into closed-off parks and reserves such as has happened all around the world over the last century. Right?  p 
 p Not necessarily.  p 
 p The team at  a href="http:  www.elephantswithoutborders.org " Elephants Without Borders  a  are researching the use of wildlife corridors to reduce human wildlife conflict in Northern Botswana, where one of the largest populations of elephants in Africa still remains. Using Kasane as the base for these studies, the organisation has set up ‘urban corridors’ and are now monitoring the movement of animals through the town and neighbouring farms.  p 
 p “When you think of wildlife corridors, everyone thinks the big trans-boundary movements,” says Tempe Adams, a lead researcher on the team, “I’m trying to re-define the idea of a wildlife corridor.”  p 
 p “It’s amazing when I take people to see the corridors – they can’t imagine that the elephants actually use them. But I assure them that they absolutely do. I use detection cameras to monitor the movement. A lot of the corridors I’m looking at, people would not class them as a corridor, but when I actually show them the photos of usage they say: ‘that’s incredible.’ I’m yet to show someone who is not surprised by the amount of wildlife that comes into town. And they don’t even know about it. A lot of these corridors are not even known to local people.’  p 
 p It seems corridors could be important to the movement of wildlife on a much broader scale in Africa.  p 
 p The Chobe National Park is at the centre of what could be the world’s largest conservation area. The  a href="http:  www.kavangozambezi.org " Kavango Zambezi Transfrontier Conservation Area  a , or KAZA TFCA an ambitious project to link five southern African countries; Angola, Botswana, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe into one massive space, and ensuring the safe movement of millions of animals over an area of 287 132 square kilometres – about the size of Italy.  p 
 p Kasane is fast becoming the capital of this mega-wildlife zone, welcoming more and  span class="GINGER_SOFTWARE_mark" id="ce7d075f-8350-42a3-b256-8643015fed69" more tourism  span  to the area and surrounds, in particular, the famous  a href="http:  www.africaalbidatourism.com africa victoria-falls" Victoria Falls  a  just over the border in Zimbabwe.  p 
 p With all this growing interest, it’s fitting that this important research is taking place here, in Kasane, where the vision is now slowly taking shape and setting the example for other towns in Africa. The Elephants Without Borders team are working closely with the KAZA initiative (Also based in Kasane), providing essential data to support KAZA projects from a scientific a research perspective.  p 
 p “The overall plan is to have wildlife corridors as a legislative land designation,” Tempe concludes. “At the moment there is no legislation attached to wildlife corridors. So when towns are expanding, they actually have a designation for a wildlife corridor. If you don’t block off key areas for them, you will reduce the conflict. It’s such a simple concept.”  p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-category"  label In  label  Uncategorized  p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-tags"  label Tags  label   a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag africa " rel="tag" Africa  a ,  a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag botswana " rel="tag" Botswana  a ,  a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag elephants " rel="tag" elephants  a ,  a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag paul-steyn " rel="tag" Paul Steyn  a   p 
 p Researchers, conservationists, and others share stories, insights and ideas about Our Changing Planet, Wildlife &amp; Wild Spaces, and The Human Journey. More than 50,000 comments have been added to 10,000 posts. Explore the list alongside to dive deeper into some of the most popular categories of the National Geographic Society’s conversation platform Voices.  p 
 p  b Opinions are those of the blogger and or the blogger’s organization, and not necessarily those of the National Geographic Society.  b  Posters of blogs and comments are required to observe National Geographic’s  a href="https:  voices.nationalgeographic.org national-geographic-community-rules " community rules  a  and other  a href="http:  www.nationalgeographic.com community terms " terms of service  a .  p 
 p Questions?  Please contact us:  a href="mailto:blog@ngs.org" blog@ngs.org  a   p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" Bat biologist Priscilla Alpízar believes that conservation is not complete without education, especially when working with animals like bats—which humans often view in a negative light.  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" “There are only a handful of cheetahs left in Ethiopia, and probably no more than 300 in the Horn of Africa,” said Sarah Durant, a senior fellow at @OfficialZSL. https:  t.co h5w1qh88ra #IntlCheetahDay  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" TODAY ONLY: Don't miss this opportunity to have your gift amount matched 2x! Until midnight tonight, all gifts will go twice as far to support our work to protect lions, elephants and other threatened species around the planet. #GivingTuesday br  https:  t.co rIi39FqirJ  p 
