 p style="text-align: justify;margin-left: 10px;margin-right: 13px;margin: 17px;" CITES is an international agreement between governments, aimed to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival.  p 
 p  strong Essential information for applying, implementing and enforcing the Convention  strong   p 
 p  strong Current activities on selected species and other key topics  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center;position: relative;left: -35px;"  strong For media enquiries:  strong  br 
	 a href=" cdn-cgi l email-protection#a0c3c9d4c5d38dcdc5c4c9c1e0d5ce8ecfd2c7"  span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="7b18120f1e0856161e1f121a3b0e155514091c" [email protected]  span   a   p 
 p  img alt="" src="https:  cites.org sites default files i news 2015 cites_logo.png" style="width: 150px; height: 88px; float: right;" In response to considerable interest from members of the public and non-government organizations, the CITES Secretariat offers this quick guide to CITES controls on international trade in live elephants.  p 
 p  strong Elephants taken from the wild  strong   p 
 p International trade in live elephants, especially when it takes the animals out of their natural range, is a very sensitive issue that generates expressions of public concern. There are strict rules in CITES to regulate such trade, but the trade is not prohibited, and some aspects of the trade are not covered by CITES rules.  p 
 p The trade controls applying to trade in live elephants from the wild depend on the country of origin of the animals.  p 
 p African elephants in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe are included in CITES Appendix II. This means that CITES Parties have agreed that although the species is “not necessarily now threatened with extinction” in these States, it may become so unless international trade in specimens from these States is strictly regulated in order to “avoid utilization incompatible with their survival”.  p 
 p African elephants from other States and all Asian elephants are considered to be “threatened with extinction” and are therefore listed in Appendix I of the Convention. This means that import of live animals for “primarily commercial purposes” is not allowed so as not to “endanger further their survival”.  p 
 p    p 
 p Conditions required prior to issuance of a CITES export permit allowing international trade in live elephants. All authorities are appointed by the State Party.  p 
 p African elephants from Botswana and Zimbabwe (Appendix II)  p 
 p African elephants from Namibia and  South Africa (Appendix II)  p 
 p    p 
 p *CITES Parties have agreed sup  font size="1"  a href="#2" 2  a    font   sup that "appropriate and acceptable destinations" are defined as destinations where:  p 
 p The triennial CITES conference held in 2016 in Johannesburg decided to consider the need for further guidance for CITES Scientific Authorities on the application of the condition relating to "appropriate and acceptable destinations" and on the ability of a proposed recipient of a living animal to be suitably equipped to house and care for it more generally. To inform this consideration, a review of these matters should be undertaken by the CITES subsidiary Committees.   p 
 p A report on this review is expected to be presented to the 18th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES, CoP18, to be held in Colombo, Sri Lanka in 2019.  p 
 p It should be noted that the way in which the animals are captured and kept prior to the export falls outside of the current scope of CITES and is regulated by the national laws of the countries supplying the elephants.  p 
 p  strong Elephants that have been bred in captivity  strong   p 
 p Different controls apply to animals that are bred in captivity, depending on the purpose of the breeding. CITES Parties have adopted a strict definition of animals ‘bred in captivity’ a href="#3"  sup 3  sup   a . As most elephants are bred in captivity for non-commercial purposes, they may be subsequently traded internationally if accompanied by a certificate of captive breeding issued by the Authorities in the State of export.  p 
 p    p 
 p style="text-align: right;"  strong CITES Secretariat, October, 2017  strong   p 
 p  sup  a name="1"   a 1  sup  If this condition is not complied with, then the specimen is treated in the same way as “African elephants from other African States and all Asian elephants (Appendix I)”  p 
 p  a name="2"   a  sup 2  sup   a href="https:  www.cites.org sites default files document E-Res-11-20-R17.pdf" https:  www.cites.org sites default files document E-Res-11-20-R17.pdf  a   p 
 p  sup  a name="3"   a 3  sup   a href="https:  www.cites.org sites default files document E-Res-10-16-R11_0.pdf" https:  www.cites.org sites default files document E-Res-10-16-R11_0.pdf  a   p 
