 p align="center" 
 a href="ac774e05.htm#TopOfPage"  img src="back.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Previous Page" border="0"   a 
 a href="ac774e00.htm#Contents"  img src="toc.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Table of Contents" border="0"   a 
 a href="ac774e07.htm#TopOfPage"  img src="next.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Next Page" border="0"   a 
  p 
 p The management of the Asian elephant is quite anomalous in the
conservation world, with circumstances quite bizarre compared to other large
mammals.  i Elephas maximus  i  Linn., 1758, an endangered species listed in
Appendix I of CITES, is thought to number between 37,000 and 48,000 animals in
the wild. Scattered through thirteen countries, the wild elephant is nearly
everywhere severely threatened by habitat destruction, poaching, and
fragmentation into small, isolated groups. Many population biologists believe
that nowhere in Asia is there a single wild population large enough to avoid
inbreeding over the long term. Of the two large captive groups outside of Asia,
the population in European zoos and circuses is essentially moribund with most
cows too old to breed, while the North American population is far from
self-sustaining at a time when both law and public opinion make it ever harder
to keep elephants.  p 
 p So far this a depressing but altogether too familiar litany,
different only in detail from many other vanishing species. But quite unlike any
other endangered large mammal, it so happens that as an artefact of an ancient
Asian tradition there exist about 16,000 Asian elephants kept in captivity in
eleven different Asian countries. Never bred selectively, these animals are
genetically and behaviorally wild elephants. Quite unlike most zoo-raised
animals, the majority of these elephants are totally conditioned to the wild. If
released into nature probably over two out of three domesticated elephants in
Asia would survive and many would mate. It is as if there was a pool of
thousands of okapis, or white rhinos, or snow leopards which could be released
with an extraordinary success rate. Astonishingly, about 12,000 of these Asian
elephants are largely ignored by governments and remain private property pure
and simple. In any Asian country, even those which have ratified CITES, anybody
with the money can buy as many domesticated elephants as desired and then treat
them however desired, with the single proviso that the elephants cannot be sold
out of the country.  p 
 p Many difficult questions are posed by Asia’s domesticated
elephants. Are they are an invaluable resource in wildlife conservation? Or are
they an outdated cultural relic which should be allowed to fade away? What do
they represent to the nations that possess them? What do they mean to the West?
Is it incumbent on man to extend, if not management, at least a degree of succor
to these troubled animals?  p 
 p Development and habitat destruction have brought a plethora of
problems to privately-owned elephants in Thailand, India, and Sri Lanka: poor
legal protection, incomplete registration, bureaucratic indifference, poor
veterinary care, skewed prices reflecting rarity value, shifting ownership
patterns, and a disturbing drop in the quality of young mahouts.  p 
 p Arthur Koestler wrote in  i The Act of Creation  i  that
“we can discuss Napoleon’s defeat at Waterloo in terms of (a)
historical significance, (b) military strategy, (c) the condition of his liver,
(d) the constellation of his planets.” Similarly, it is both possible and
necessary to discuss the domesticated Asian elephant’s decline in terms of
(a) its loss of significance in national economies, (b) the difficulties of
unfreezing elephant sperm, (c) the relative sexual ineptitude of bull elephants
deprived of opportunities for adolescent sex play, and (d) alcoholism and
feelings of inferiority amongst low caste mahouts. Wider issues affecting
management include habitat destruction and the waning influence of Buddhist and
Hindu precepts in daily life.  p 
 p The scientific and technical disciplines of biology, forestry,
veterinary medicine, animal husbandry, and law are obviously essential in
managing domesticated elephants. Less obviously, the crucial caretaking function
performed by mahouts and owners requires the entry of humanities such as social
anthropology and sociology, as well as more arcane subjects such as comparative
religion, social history, linguistics, etc. The study and management of
domesticated elephants is consequently as much art as science. In terms of
precision or being a ‘hard science’, the management and conservation
of domesticated elephants is to wildlife biology, for example, what wildlife
biology is to chemistry or physics. Macro-management of domesticated elephants
is a hybrid, catch-all science much like sociology, and thinking on the
‘sociology’ of elephants in man-created environments is as primitive
as was human sociology in its infancy, with the need to define fundamentals just
beginning to be perceived.  p 
 p Keeping elephants also has an ethical dimension. Sadly, a
particular sub-set of sociology, penology, might be a more accurate comparison
for elephant keeping. Elephant management raises ethical issues such as -
expressed in their human equivalent - kidnapping, forced labor, starvation
rations, solitary confinement, torture, and even capital punishment. Drawing
Western-derived ethical conclusions makes little sense, however, while
witnessing the demise of over four millennia of elephant keeping in
Asia.  p 
 p The Asian elephant is in severe trouble in all range states.
The problems facing the elephant - deforestation, human encroachment, poaching,
etc. - are best described systematically in  i The Asian Elephant: An Action
Plan for its Conservation   i (Santiapillai and Jackson, 1990).  p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Table 1: Asian elephants ( i Elephas maximus  i ) in the
wild, 1996  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Country  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Minimum  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Maximum  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Source sup 1  sup   b   p 
 p Bangladesh  p 
 p 200  p 
 p 250  p 
 p  i Anwarul Islam  i   p 
 p Bhutan  p 
 p 50  p 
 p 100  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p Cambodia  p 
 p 500  p 
 p 1,000  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p China  p 
 p 330  p 
 p 370  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p India  p 
 p 23,500  p 
 p 27,500  p 
 p  i Government of India  i   p 
 p Indonesia  p 
 p Kalimantan  p 
 p 500  p 
 p 1,000  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p Sumatra  p 
 p 3,000  p 
 p 4,000  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p Lao PDR  p 
 p 200  p 
 p 500  p 
 p  i Alan Rabinowitz  i   p 
 p Malaysia  p 
 p Peninsula  p 
 p 1,200  p 
 p 1,500  p 
 p  i Mohd. Khan &amp; John Sale  i   p 
 p Sabah  p 
 p 500  p 
 p 800  p 
 p  i John Sale  i   p 
 p Myanmar  p 
 p 4,000  p 
 p 6,000  p 
 p  i Ye Htut &amp; Myint Aung  i   p 
 p Nepal  p 
 p 50  p 
 p 60  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p Sri Lanka  p 
 p 2,000  p 
 p 3,000  p 
 p  i Charles Santiapillai  i   p 
 p Thailand  p 
 p 1,200  p 
 p 1,500  p 
 p  i Mattana Srikrajang  i   p 
 p Vietnam  p 
 p 300  p 
 p 600  p 
 p  i S. Dawson &amp; P.M. Giao  i   p 
 p Total  p 
 p 37,530  p 
 p 48,180  p 
 p  sup 1  sup Estimates compiled by Dr. Charles
Santiapillai on behalf of the IUCN SSC Asian Elephant Specialist Group (Pers.
comm., 1996).  p 
 p According to Dr. Charles Santiapillai (Pers. comm., 1996), who
has kindly supplied updated estimates as presented in Table 1, Asia still holds
about 37,530 to 48,180 wild elephants.  p 
 p The man-elephant relationship is quite strange. While most of
the domestic animals now most highly attuned to man (the dog, the cat, the water
buffalo, etc.) have wild forebears which are largely untameable, many
wild-caught elephants quickly and easily form intimate bonds with their keepers
even though their wild temperament has never been modified through selective
breeding. Some elephants form such warm and affectionate bonds with man as to
deceive the observer into thinking that this animal must have been made truly
domestic. Many other elephants in domesticity, however, remain unremittingly
wild, hostile to man and ready to kill him at every chance. Clearly, a
domesticated elephant is simply a wild animal in chains - but a wild animal
frequently gentle and intelligent enough to be totally trustworthy as a
baby-sitter to watch over human infants. What adjective best describes such
animals when kept by man, particularly in relation to their wild
congeners?  p 
 p Consider the implications of the various terms that have been
used for  i Elephas maximus  i  in domesticity: tame elephant, work (or working)
elephant, timber elephant, domestic elephant, domesticated elephant, and, lately
in vogue, captive elephant. ‘Tame elephant’ can be discarded as vague
and misleading, and ‘tame Asian elephant’ is ludicrous. Both
‘work’ elephant and ‘timber’ elephant are vague and
applicable to only some animals. ‘Domestic’ elephant,
‘domesticated’ elephant, and ‘captive’ elephant all have
more promise, as will be seen.  p 
 p The dilemma of choosing an adjective might seem a trivial
semantic quibble but the unavoidable decision necessitates making fundamental
distinctions about the provenance of Asian elephants in domesticity and also
about their genetic manipulation - or surprising lack thereof - at the hands of
man.  p 
 p  i · See “The
history of domestication,” page 12.  i   p 
 p Apart from science, words such as ‘captive’ or
‘domestic’ also have a totally separate meaning in the law of each
elephant-keeping country. Cultural differences will also influence nomenclatural
distinctions, and, in particular, Western ethics can clash with those of the
East. The elephant, perceived as a long-treasured ‘household elephant’
in most Asian minds, might often be seen as an abused ‘captive
elephant’ in contemporary Western eyes.  p 
 p Clutton-Brock (1981) is eclectic but illuminating. Warning
that the animals utilized by man cannot always be neatly categorized, she
divides them into two primary groups: ‘man-made animals’ and
‘exploited captives’. She defines man-made animals as where the
“livelihood and breeding of the animals is entirely under control and some,
like certain breeds of dog, have been altered out of all recognition from the
wild progenitor.” Clutton-Brock’s second group, the exploited captives
(a curiously evocative turn of phrase), consists of wild animals which after
capture are tamed or trained to some degree. Certainly both the “livelihood
and breeding” of Asian elephants in captivity are potentially under
absolute human control, but through thousands of years of keeping elephants,
man’s inherent control over breeding has rarely been exercised, and never
exercised selectively through a significant number of generations. sup 1  sup 
Many if not most domesticated elephants over all time have been either captured
in the wild or sired by a wild bull and thus the elephant is an ‘exploited
captive’. Clutton-Brock’s innovative terms do vividly illustrate a
crucial distinction, but they are also unwieldy and unconventional.  p 
 p Facing the same linguistic dilemma, Van Gelder (1969) terms
Clutton-Brock’s ‘man-made animals’ as ‘domestic
animals’ - a word often applied to elephants - and defines domestic
animals, oversimplifying somewhat, as populations that are biologically or
behaviorally different from their wild ancestors. The elephant as kept by man
violates both stipulations. Biologically, elephants have never been subject to
centuries, much less millennia, of selective breeding and genetic manipulation
as have water buffalo, cattle, etc. Behaviorally, even when born in captivity,
and even when born of two captive-born parents, elephants remain wild animals.
There is no such thing as the ‘domestic elephant’. Van Gelder denotes
Clutton-Brock’s ‘exploited captives’ to be
‘domesticated’ and stresses that being ‘domesticated’ is a
process undergone by groups or by a population.  p 
 p This book also will, somewhat unhappily, use the term
‘domesticated’ to refer to elephants held in domesticity, even though
a complex and fundamental distinction hinges on an innocuous ‘-ed’.
The ‘-ed’ is perhaps not so innocuous, however, if
‘domesticated’ is thought of as the past tense of an active verb,
indicating that each individual elephant, whether captive-born or wild-caught,
through all time has been forcibly subjected to breaking.  p 
 p The author has often contemplated switching from
‘domesticated elephant’ to ‘captive elephant’, a term
increasingly used in the West and with much justification. ‘Captive’
describes the elephants’ situation from both a physical and legal
perspective, and ‘captive’ cries out their plight from an emotional
perspective. (‘Domesticated’, by contrast, makes an often brutal
relationship sound almost cosy.) But, tempting as it is, the term
‘captive’ chafes in two ways. First, ‘captive’ implies that
all elephants held by man were caught in the wild when for thousands of years
many elephants in Asia have been born in domesticity, and presently the ratio of
domestic-born to wild-caught elephants is increasing in most countries; thus, to
call the elephants kept by man in Asia ‘captive elephants’ is
misleading and inaccurate. Second, while ‘captive elephant’ might be
perfectly apt referring to an animal in a zoo in San Francisco or a circus in
Moscow, the term seems contrived and opinionated, even judgmental, when applied
to Asian traditions stretching back at least 4,000 years and possibly to the
Palaeolithic.  p 
 p As for a noun, ‘captivity’ would seem quite accurate
to describe wild-caught elephants, but the rusty word ‘domesticity’
seems better for animals born of domesticated parents and thus also better for
speaking of wild-caught and domestic-born animals collectively.  p 
 p This book is conceptually the middle section of a larger
unwritten work, a three-volume series comprehensively overviewing the management
of the domesticated Asian elephant: (I) The Past: History, culture, and keeping
technique; (II) The Present: Status and problems by country; and (III) The
Future: Management and solutions. In this scheme, the current book is the second
volume, the present, written out of sequence so as to respond to the grave
problems threatening domesticated Asian elephants.  p 
 p By ‘the present’ is meant roughly the coming to Asia
of colonialism, international mercantilism, and modern technology - the roots of
today’s ‘globalization’. References to earlier, pre-1850 times
are sparse except for information which strongly illuminates issues still
important today. (In any case, social history, into which this book occasionally
wanders, is far more important than the conventional history of names and
dates.) Coverage becomes reasonably complete around World War II. This book
discusses the future only briefly and even then only to point out looming
problems unavoidable over the short term, about twenty years or the time a calf
born today will take to reach maturity.  p 
 p The Asian elephant,  i Elephas maximus  i , is listed in
Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Eight Asian countries with wild elephants have
ratified CITES: Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Nepal, Sri Lanka,
and Thailand. (Of course, as Bari [1992] wrote, “Listing a species in
Appendix I of CITES alone offers no guarantee to ensure its long term survival
in the field.”) The legal status of wild elephants is quite straightforward
everywhere; unfortunately, the legal status of domesticated elephants is often
quite ambiguous.  p 
 p Consider the current legal status of animals such as the
various pigs in the genus  i Sus  i , the cattle in the genus  i Bos  i , or the
buffalo in the genus  i Bubalus  i . All three of these genera have both clearly
defined wild species and clearly defined domestic breeds. Thus, in management,
wild species such as  i Sus salvanius   i (pygmy hog) or  i Bos gaurus
  i (gaur) or  i Bubalus bubalis   i (wild buffalo) automatically fall under the
jurisdiction of wildlife departments, while the Taihu pig, the Zebu cow, and the
57 endangered breeds of domestic buffalo become the ward of livestock or animal
husbandry departments. But while wild specimens of  i Elephas maximus  i  fall
clearly to the wildlife camp and thus get complete legal protection, the
domesticated elephant gets no protector because of its nebulous and confusing
status as a wild species never domesticated - that is, never made a true
domestic animal - even though kept in domesticity for millennia.  p 
 p Individual wildlife biologists are invariably sympathetic, but
national wildlife agencies universally (except perhaps Myanmar) consider the
domesticated Asian elephant to be just another domestic animal and thus none of
their business - even in countries where the domesticated elephant is legally
classified as wild and the wildlife agency has been given jurisdiction.
Livestock departments generally consider the domesticated elephant to be a wild
animal, an exotic remnant of the past with no commercial value and thus unworthy
of their attention. (The more developed a country is, the more staunchly is the
elephant excluded; only in Myanmar and Lao PDR are livestock departments
genuinely interested in domesticated elephants.) Forestry institutions and
foresters happily acknowledge a great historical debt but then quite correctly
conclude that protecting or managing domesticated elephant populations is not
their job. In the end, caring for privately-owned domesticated Asian elephants
in most countries turns out to be nobody’s job, usually for reasons of how
law assigns jurisdiction.  p 
 p The line between wild and domesticated elephants initially
seems very distinct. This commonly perceived schism is bolstered because
 i Elephas maximus  i  in the hands of man superficially resembles the situation
of the true domestic animals. But the true domestic animals have through
man’s artifices widely diverged genetically from their wild ancestor, while
the domesticated elephant has never been selectively bred and thus both
genetically and behaviorally remains a wild elephant. Too many conservationists
intellectually well aware of this distinction persist in drawing a fundamental
but false division between wild and domesticated Asian elephants. Lair (1982)
said, “We can no longer afford to look at wild and domestic elephants as
two distinct populations; the relationship of wild and domestic elephants must
increasingly be seen as a synergistic or interdependent relationship.” The
interface between what are really two subpopulations is surprisingly
porous.  p 
 p Asia’s 16,000 domesticated elephants possess an unusual
degree of ‘releasability’. If set free into appropriate wild habitat,
many domesticated elephants in Asia would survive (probably over two out of
three, although nobody can say for sure), and thus  i Elephas maximus  i  is a
superb candidate for release. Beyond mere survival, most released elephants
would integrate with wild elephants and many would ultimately breed. Released in
the absence of wild elephants, well-selected groups of domesticated elephants
would quickly form viable feral communities which after a generation or two of
cleansing man-inflicted traits would behaviorally become genuine wild
elephants.  p 
 p A large majority of Asia’s 16,000 domesticated elephants
are freed daily to feed in nature, their movement restricted only by hobbles or
a tether chain. Most domesticated elephants therefore closely approach wild
elephants in physical fitness, understanding of terrain, and knowledge of food
types and where to find them. Domesticated elephants need neither to be
psychologically acclimatized to the forest nor physically acclimatized to steep
hillsides; they do not need to be taught how to avoid poisonous plants or how to
use their trunks to gather their own food. (If domesticated elephants have any
man-inflicted lack compared to wild elephants, it is neither physical ability
nor understanding of environment but rather poor social skills: mothering,
leading, mating, etc.) Such a high degree of pre-adaptation to the wild is
unusual for a large mammal and holds enormous potential in future wildlife
management.  p 
 p Great numbers of wild elephants have been captured to enter
domesticity for, let us assume, at least 4,000 years. Perhaps over 100,000 wild
elephants were captured in the last century and perhaps two to four million
animals have been captured throughout the history of domestication (Sukumar,
1992).  p 
 p Recruitment from the wild subpopulation is not limited to
captive animals but also includes transferred germ plasma from wild bulls
covering domesticated cows. In India and Sri Lanka calves sired by wild bulls
have constituted virtually the only captive births. Sometimes in the past the
‘recruitment’ of wild gametes reached immense proportions. Of
Burma’s pre-colonial past, O’Connor (1907) wrote, “The King owned
a thousand elephants of whom the males were thoroughly broken to service; the
females were kept in a half wild state on the borders of the elephant forests,
where they were visited by their wild neighbours.” O’Connor was too
much of a gentleman to point out that most visiting “wild neighbours”
were breeding bulls. Similar semi-managed breeding systems were found in
Thailand and, indeed, across the continent.  p 
 p Clearly, the wild-to-domesticated elephant transfer, both as
animals and as gametes, has been extensive and is well documented and
understood. The transfer of animals and gametes in the opposite direction, from
domesticity to the wild, is poorly understood; indeed, it has never been
discussed in any depth.  p 
 p Casual thought and cursory examination of the historical
record suggest that, apart from a few escapees, domesticated elephants do not
become wild elephants. Further reading and thought, however, show that the
interchange between the two subpopulations is far more bi-directional than first
appears. The most obvious domesticated-to-wild transfer is the fairly frequent
occurrence of domesticated elephants which have slipped or broken their chains,
or perhaps killed their mahout, to escape into the wild. But beyond such
‘accidental releases’, owners must also for millennia have
intentionally released individual elephants into the wild for many reasons:
retirement, a temporary illness mistaken for a wasting disease, a
work-preventing injury in an otherwise healthy elephant, being fundamentally
uncontrollable, etc. (In Thailand a few years ago, a wild elephant named Nga
Ngorn, famous for killing two visitors to Khao Yai National Park, was almost
surely a released domesticated elephant, probably set free for being
uncontrollable.)  p 
 p Release at the end of a working life, whether for age or
injury, must have been an extremely common form of retirement in bygone days.
Cultural prohibitions against elephant meat and the waste of a man’s
valuable time tending unproductive elephants made release the common sense
answer for unwanted animals. (As late as the mid-19th century, as suggested by
data in Table 25, page 258, Thailand might have had one domesticated elephant
for every fifty people, probably producing a perennial shortage of mahouts). The
literature mentions but few such releases, probably because to liberate
unproductive elephants was such an everyday event as to be beneath notice. In
times of low human numbers and vast wilderness, much of it abundant with wild
elephants, the freeing of a retired or injured elephant was surely much easier
than in today’s cramped environment. Speculating on the man-elephant
relationship in earlier days, Olivier (1978a) says “it must have been much
easier to find and capture elephants than today, and thus by positive feedback a
cultural relationship with elephants grew....” If finding and capturing
elephants was easier then than now, releasing unwanted animals must also have
been easier, a totally natural thing to do.  p 
 p Mass or group releases have also long been common. In what is
now Thailand, for example, in order to save manpower and money the kingdom of
Ayutthaya in times of peace released many of its war elephants, probably
particularly transport animals, into forests holding wild elephants; the
released animals were recaptured (along with, it must be presumed, their
offspring) only when war broke out. Giles (1930a) wrote, “In central Siam,
especially in the circles of Prachin and Ayudhya, where not many years back one
would frequently meet herds of semi-wild elephants browsing on the trees and
bushes and eating the paddy-crop, hardly an animal is to be met with today.
These semi-wild animals were those which came under the control of the Royal
Elephant Department [ i krom kochabal  i ] and were driven to the great elephant
kraal at Ayudhya on the occasion of a royal drive or hunt.”Royal elephant
parks ( i gajavana  i ) in India were seemingly run along similar lines of
‘periodic release’ and, indeed, they might even have been the model
for the Thai system.  p 
 p Another frequent motive for mass releases was in times of war
to deny the use of one’s elephants to an enemy, much like spiking cannon or
releasing cavalry horses. Olivier (1978a) writes that “ancient kingdoms
would attempt to capture the tame stocks of enemies, or accept them as
tributes....” But many defeated enemies would have freed their elephants in
preference to watching the victor enjoy their use; as late as World War II many
elephants in Burma were set free as the only alternative to confiscation by the
British or, most often, the Japanese. In an unusual - although unusual perhaps
only because of place - mass release in the 1930s, the Andaman islands of India
suddenly gained a wild population (or, perhaps more accurately, a feral
population of wild elephants, given the elephant’s genetic composition)
when a bankrupt Japanese timber firm freed its elephants.  p 
 p Releases, both individual and mass, might seem to belong to
history and releases undoubtedly were far more common in the past, but
intentional releases continue to this day. Over the past few years one province
of northern Thailand is said to have had 20 or 30 domesticated elephants
released haphazardly into the wild by owners who could no longer make a living
from them, could no longer afford to keep them, and could not find buyers for
them.  p 
 p The best-placed observer of illegal logging in northern
Thailand, a veterinarian, predicts that within five or six years all of the
valuable trees will have been extracted, creating a loss of work which will
provoke so many individual releases of unemployable and unsellable elephants as
to collectively constitute a mass release. Recently in Thailand there has even
been considerablle talk in official circles of group releases of retired,
injured, unemployable, or otherwise elephants.  p 
 p Although much less common than wild elephants mating with
domesticated elephants, domesticated elephants do sometimes genetically
infiltrate the wild population through breeding. One observer  i {Mukherjee,
1995}  i  says that in West Bengal and other parts of northeast India, mahouts
will sometimes release hobbled domesticated bulls to mate with wild cows, the
mahouts’ motive being to allow their charge to relieve tension. Dr. Khyne U
Mar (Pers. comm., 1996) says that there are domesticated bulls in Myanmar which,
frustrated by the many non-cycling domesticated cows, chase after wild cows;
many of these wayward bulls are never recaptured.  p 
 p In the terai of Nepal not long ago a domesticated bull,
Ganesha, was released into the wild upon his owner’s death (Dhungel  i et
al  i . i ,  i  1990). Despite destroying property and causing “even a few
human deaths,” Ganesha was seen as a “deity” by local villagers.
Ganesha proved to be a superb breeder. Regularly visiting the Koshi Tappu
elephant camp, he had sired seven calves as of 1988. Assume for the sake of
argument that Ganesha, as is the norm in Nepal, was purchased in northeast
India, where nearly all domesticated elephants have been captured in the wild.
If so, Ganesha would have been born a wild elephant, then domesticated, then
released back to the wild - from where he sired calves born in domesticity.
(Given his success with domesticated cows, he is likely to have covered wild
cows as well.)  p 
 p Clearly, there is not a simple one-way door between the wild
and domesticated subpopulations but rather an osmosis which normally draws wild
elephants into domesticity but under certain conditions allows significant flow
into the wild. Domesticated-to-wild elephant transfers clearly did not create a
seething cauldron of mixing genes, but rather a very slowly simmering kettle.
Domesticated-to-wild transfers rarely compare in scope with those in the reverse
direction, but if there is any validity to the wildlife management technique of
managed introduction (inserting a few animals, usually males, to enhance genetic
diversity in a pocketed population), then a modest but steady influx of
‘foreign genes’ from released domesticated elephants must have
significantly influenced some wild populations, perhaps even imparting a degree
of hybrid vigor.  p 
 p The crossing of domesticated elephants back into the wild is
not radical theory but rather the less common direction of a two-way interchange
which illustrates that biologically, and even practically if managers so choose,
wild and domesticated elephants are two subpopulations of a single species.
(Nonetheless, to use ‘subpopulation’ at every turn soon becomes
awkward; the terms ‘wild population’ and ‘domesticated
population’ are normally used henceforth.)  p 
 p Accepting Sukumar’s (1992) assumption of between two and
four million wild elephants captured since the dawn of elephant keeping, there
must surely have been significant trickle-back into the wild. Man has
unintentionally and unknowingly been genetically manipulating some regional wild
populations for thousands of years. The fact that releases followed by breeding
have occurred regularly in significant numbers over much time is beyond dispute;
the only question is the degree of genetic impact on wild elephants - and,
equally intriguing, the distance over which that impact might have
spread.  p 
 p Elephants are extremely mobile creatures, and wild-caught
elephants are invariably moved a considerable distance from the capture site.
How far might genetic influene have spread?  p 
 p Elephants, often in great numbers, have for thousands of years
been sent great distances all over Asia, including to many areas rich with wild
elephants. (An excellent source for information on early trade is Digby [1971].)
The purely commercial trade was vast, gifting elephants in diplomacy was common,
and warfare was rife. Innumerable specific examples could be given, but let a
few suffice. Alexander on his return to Europe took along many domesticated
elephants from the Indian subcontinent, passing through now defunct wild
elephant populations in the Tigris-Euphrates basin. Kublai Khan, the founder of
the Mongol dynasty in China, was said to have 5,000 elephants, and many of them
travelled far. Ceylon’s fine elephants have been a valuable commodity
exported for over 2,000 years; Kurt (1969) speaks of exports as early as the 6th
century BC, and Digby (1971) of exports in the 3rd century BC. Jayewardene
(1994c) says, “Records show that even though Sri Lanka was exporting a
large number of elephants in the 5th and 6th century BC, a number of elephants
were also imported into the country after the 4th century BC.”  p 
 p A few centuries ago, according to Olivier (1978a), there
appear to have been three main centers for capturing and then selling wild
elephants - Bengal, Ceylon, and Pegu (lower Burma) - and “this complex
trade in elephants was set up very early on.” He adds that the centers,
beyond “trading from their own abundant wild stocks, also imported animals
for resale from similar centres elsewhere.” Those “similar centres
elsewhere” must have included many elephant entrepots further to the east
and, far back in time, to the west nearly reaching the Mediterranean.  p 
 p Many translocated domesticated elephants, some wild-caught and
some captive-born, must have escaped or been released far from their place of
birth. Many translocated elephants must subsequently have bred with local wild
elephants. The impact of translocated elephants breeding with local populations,
both domesticated and wild, would have been all out of proportion to their
numbers because of the criteria used to choose them in their place of
origin.  p 
 p Sending old or inferior elephants over great distances at
great expense makes little sense, so nearly all elephants sold or gifted far
away would have been young, fit, and handsome. Only exceptional animals were
sent expensively by ship, and probably even elephants sent overland were far
above average. Most were probably young adult males, valued highly everywhere
for their strength and their beauty, and nearly all gifts would have been
tuskers since to send a cow or  i mukhna  i  could easily be seen as an insult.
(In Sri Lanka, some tuskers might even have been imported specifically to be
released in the hope of passing their tusk-bearing qualities to the largely
tuskless wild bulls.) Given their youth and superior physical qualities, an
unnaturally large number of bulls sent far from home must have been good
breeders. Bulls are able to cover more cows than cows are able to drop calves,
another reason that any released or escaped translocated elephants would have
bred with disproportionate effect. As time passed, some of the translocated
elephants would increasingly have included not just a single local genotype but
rather a mix, for example a tusker sired by a Cambodian bull out of a dam from
northern Thailand being sent as a royal gift to Sri Lanka.  p 
 p The movement of wild elephants at the hand of man to breed far
from home is quite unusual in the breeding history of a wild species. While
domestic dogs and water buffalo, for example, have often been moved at the hands
of man and some have perhaps then bred with their wild progenitors at the new
location, the moved dogs and buffalo were normally long-domesticated lineages.
Translocated elephants, however, were and are wild animals. Wild elephants were
moved by man thousands of kilometers, sometimes to mate with local wild
elephants and perhaps even with a different subspecies. (A similar situation has
ocurred with reindeer and a few other species but never over such great
distances.) For millennia man has been unwittingly and unintentionally
influencing the genetics of wild elephants over considerable
distances.  p 
 p The genetic impact on wild elephants of human-engineered
releases of relocated domesticated elephants, both accidental and intentional,
both as individuals and groups, is difficult to quantify. Probably the only way
to put the question on a scientific footing would be for an historian, a
geneticist, and a population biologist to identify the critical parameters in
their own disciplines, correlate them, and then construct computer models in
order to explore the variables of those parameters.  p 
 p The impact of wild elephant populations on domesticated
elephant populations is obvious; wild elephants have for millennia provided a
bounteous supply of captives, and wild elephants have sired many calves born in
captivity. But, from a conservation point of view, what practical effects do
domesticated elephants in Asia presently have on the management of wild
elephants? At first glance, the answer would seem to be no effect at all, and in
the past this was largely true. Looking to the future, however, there are new
practices and many traditional management practices which could maximize the
benefits which domesticated elephants pose for wild populations.  p 
 p The following potential benefits to wild elephants from
well-managed domesticated populations are not original to the author but rather
represent a body of collective wisdom culled from the literature. Most of these
benefits are discussed extensively in the country profiles, and sources are
cited there. (To cite even one source below would mean having to cite all, which
would obfuscate the clarity of the following list.) The benefits that
domesticated elephants could provide to wild elephants are that:  p 
 p 1. Domesticated elephant populations are
everywhere in Asia the final refuge for wild elephants in situations where they
can no longer be tolerated or no longer survive in nature.  p 
 p 2. Domesticated elephant populations are indigenous captive
breeding programs which, despite being almost totally unmanaged, regularly
produce many elephants pre-adapted for release into the wild:  p 
 p a. to bolster declining wild groups or
those with a sexual imbalance.  p 
 p b. to reintroduce elephants in areas where they have been
extirpated.  p 
 p c. to by means of managed immigration ‘insert’
outside genes into pocketed wild groups faced with inbreeding.  p 
 p 3. Domesticated elephants trained to control other elephants,
presently under-utilized, are invaluable in relocating wild elephants and in
capturing and training them for wildlife management purposes: saving doomed
elephants, placating local opinion, clearing for unavoidable development,
etc.  p 
 p 4. Domesticated elephants employed at skidding in selective
logging operations obviate the need to build roads and thus protect the
environment of the wild elephant and, indeed, all other species.  p 
 p 5. Domesticated elephant populations which produce significant
numbers of calves eliminate or greatly reduce pressure to reinstate legal
capture of wild elephants for commercial purposes.  p 
 p 6. Domesticated elephants, when strictly registered and
visibly marked as individuals, discourage illegal capture and trade of wild
elephants by minimizing sales of captives into the legal domesticated
population.  p 
 p 7. Domesticated elephants can serve as a platform for hands-on
research directly benefiting the conservation of wild elephants. Reproductive
biology and the determination of subspecies are the most obvious spheres of
research, but others include inventing a contraceptive-implanting dart to be
used in the control wild birth rates, developing the use of voice prints to
identify and monitor individual wild elephants, etc.  p 
 p 8. Domesticated elephants already play valuable though
unplanned roles in education and ‘public relations’ on behalf of their
wild cousins; these roles could be expanded with careful planning.  p 
 p Well-managed domesticated populations are of inestimable value
to the wildlife conservation community, and their importance can only grow
exponentially as wild elephant populations continue to decline. The larger
wildlife conservation community should assess the worth of these many benefits
and consider greater participation in the management of domesticated
elephants.  p 
 p The preface to an early but still important book on elephant
care,  i Elephants and Their Diseases   i (Evans, 1910), states, “The
scantiness of the literature on the subject is, I am aware, a source of
embarrassment to those in charge of these valuable animals and the need for
someguide embodying the latest information has been widely felt.”
Eighty-five years later, the pressures on Asia’s domesticated elephants
have increased exponentially but the modern management literature is still
“a source of embarrassment,” except for a rich veterinary literature
and bountiful writings on elephants in Western zoos. Since Evans’s fine
book, only one single work, Ferrier’s 1947  i The Care and Management of
Elephants in Burma  i , has been published on the practical keeping and
management of Asian elephants on their home continent. (Gale’s classic 1974
 i Burmese Timber Elephant   i contains a good overview on both wild and
domesticated elephants.) Standard reference works on care abound for the true
domestic animals such as swine, cattle, poultry and even for commercially-farmed
wild species such as musk deer or ostriches, but even the most diligent
researcher will come up nearly empty-handed when assembling the basic works on
domesticated elephants. Even the domestic yak got a book unto itself,  i The
Yak  i , an excellent overview by Li and Wiener (1995), before the Asian
elephant did. Of the use of elephants in forestry, two brief FAO publications
(Jayasekara and Atapattu, 1995; Anon., 1974) are very good, but they are
intended to brief outsiders, not to teach new skills to working elephant
managers.  p 
 p The absence of comprehensive, practical publications relevant
to care and use in Asia - whether in logging, animal husbandry, veterinary
medicine, or conservation - is distinctly odd considering that the elephant is
the largest living land animal, has long been known and loved across the globe,
and the Asian elephant has for millennia played an eminent role in human culture
including two of the world’s great religions, Hinduism and Buddhism. The
Asian elephant has until recently also been invaluable to man as a work animal
and money-earner, and therein lies the likeliest explanation for the huge gaps
in the professional literature. A precipitous decline in the use of elephants in
transport and logging has quickly stripped them of their once enormous economic
value, and consequently there has been no perceived need for books on managing
elephants. A more charitable explanation for the lack of publications might be
that extreme cultural differences between keepers cause management systems for
elephants to vary with location far more than do keeping systems for the true
domestic animals, thus rendering impossible any book of universal
applicability.  p 
 p Nowhere is the paucity of literature more regretted than in
anthropology. Many if not most domesticated elephants in Asia are ridden by
tribals and many elephants are owned by tribals, but published knowledge of
tribal keeping is comprised of a few tantalizing snippets written mostly by
non-anthropologists, nearly all veterinarians, foresters, or wildlife
biologists. No anthropologist has ever studied and systematically described the
elephant-keeping aspects of a single tribe or society in Asia. ( i See “The
tribal traditions,” page 19, for the use of the problematic word
‘tribe’  i .)  p 
 p The following country profiles comprise a fairly comprehensive
review of the English-language scientific and management literature, directing
readers to all primary sources and most secondary ones. (Indeed, many sources
have been ‘squeezed’ of most or all of the hard information they
contain.) All documents of worth accessible to the author have been cited, often
with a brief attempt to indicate their usefulness.  p 
 p Little general background on elephants is provided because
given the expert audience intended it is assumed that most readers will be
reasonably familiar with the elephant’s life history, size, food
requirements, breeding biology, etc. Supplying background could easily double
the size of the present work. Some excellent general works are recommended in a
footnote. sup 2  sup  The most useful background books for a particular country
are briefly ‘reviewed’ in the last paragraph of that country
profile’s introduction; books specific to a given a subject are recommended
under that subject.  p 
 p Newspapers and popular periodicals have been consulted and
quoted to an unusual extent for a work on management. (Only stories with a
byline have been cited.) The popular press is usually the only source of
information about topical events such as mahouts killed by elephants, musth
bulls being killed by police, etc., and the press is often the only window for
monitoring substantive issues such as the activities of NGOs, campaigns to
change law, etc. The author’s guidelines for using newspaper sources have
been that the story must be noted as such, must appear well-researched, must be
consistent with other sources, and if controversial should be corroborated by a
human source such as an elephant expert, an official, a villager, etc.  p 
 p Interviews were conducted with academics, veterinarians,
wildlife biologists, and other professionals. In the text interviews are
indicated by giving the person’s name or the year of the interview in
italic braces, e. g.,  i {Smith, 1996}   i or Ghosh i  {1996}  i ; a list of
people interviewed is given in Appendix 1. Much valuable evidence, especially
for Thailand, has come from mahouts and elephant owners, the best source of
information on illegal capture and trade, prices, preferences for elephants by
sex and age, etc. Interviews disguised as casual conservation are the only way
to uncover such elusive issues such as the morale of tribal mahouts or the
attitudes of the youngest generation of mahouts.  p 
 p Conventional wisdom has it that the Asian elephant was first
domesticated 4,000 or more years ago by the Harappan culture at Mohenjo-Daro (in
present day Pakistan), and the figure of 4,000 years will henceforth be
frequently used as a convenient shorthand to evoke the great antiquity of
elephant keeping. “The received view is that the earliest evidence of
elephants in captivity comes from the Harappan seals which show elephants with
ropes on them,” says Lahiri-Choudhuri (1995); he believes, however, that
since no seal or image shows a rider, the seals prove only that elephants were
kept captive, not that they were trained or “domesticated.”  p 
 p Conventional wisdom often implies but rarely specifically
states that the art and science of elephant-keeping diffused throughout the
continent from a center in northwest India. Undoubtedly, a great cultural
dissemination spread from that area, radiating ever wider with the rise of
aristocratic elephant-keeping cultures across the subcontinent - but that center
was not neccessarily the source of the first domestication.  p 
 p Both the time and the place of the first domestication of
elephants remain totally open to debate. Gould (1991) writes, “Stories
about beginnings come in only two basic modes. An entity either has an explicit
point of origin, a specific time and place of creation, or else it evolves and
has no definable moment of entry to the world.”  p 
 p The place of the first domestication is unclear because
Mohenjo-Daro clearly fails to qualify as, to use Gould’s term, “an
explicit point of origin.” The evidence for Mohenjo-Daro itself is very
scant, so the lack of physical evidence elsewhere does not prove that elephant
keeping did not exist anywhere else. Olivier (1978a), referring to Burma,
Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam - “a baffling melting pot of
languages and culture” - writes that “historical sources indicated
that the elephant has been known, caught, and used for almost as long in this
region as it has in India, although McNeely ... suggests that this only began
with the advent of Hindu influences.” Domestication might well have been
found in many places 4,000 years ago, not just Mohenjo-Daro.  p 
 p As for the time of first domestication, Mohenjo-Daro is
clearly not a “definable moment of entry.” Lahiri-Choudhuri (1995)
believes that the keeping of elephants in captivity in India might stretch back
“up to 8,000 years or so.” The first keeping of elephants was
undoubtedly in the Palaeolithic when a lost or orphaned calf attached itself to
a tribe of hunters; young elephant calves have no instinctive fear of man and
are well known for seeking out humans if bereft of elephant society. The
question is really how one defines ‘domestication’. How many elephants
must be kept over what period of time before qualifying as true domestication?
Does casually keeping an elephant or two permanently at the edge of camp
constitute domestication? Is performance of work a criterion? Is breeding good
numbers of calves a criterion? (If so, Sri Lanka and India have failed to this
day.) Is selective breeding a criterion? (If so, then to this day the elephant
has never been domesticated in the conventional sense.)  p 
 p From a biological perspective the Asian elephant is a wild
animal that has never been made a domestic animal even though for thousands of
years millions of elephants have as individuals been forcibly domesticated (or
been born to such animals). Given such an ancient history, it is quite amazing
that there was never any significant selective breeding.  p 
 p The time, place, and nature of the first domestication are all
fascinating armchair puzzles. Although ultimately unanswerable, reflection on
these conundrums is not purely intellectual because these questions stimulate
productive thought about human nature, elephant nature, and the tumultuous
confluence of the two.  p 
 p In many aspects the Asian elephant is a fairly normal domestic
herbivore: a slow but good breeder, not fussy about food, and not particularly
high strung, although many adult males do require considerable skill in
handling, much like domestic horses or bovines. Unusual complications, however,
are posed by the fact that the elephant is the world’s largest living land
mammal, with the Asian elephant closely following the African elephant,
particularly in terms of weight.  p 
 p Beyond sheer size, still other unique physiological
characteristics differentiate the elephant from other herbivores. The elephant
lives longer than any mammal other than man. (Elephants in domesticity
consequently have a very long working life, but only at the expense of a very
slow growth to working age.) The elephant has the longest mammalian gestation
period, 21-22 months, and a very long reproductive span, with some cows calving
even past sixty years.  p 
 p As a serious thought experiment combining animal biology and
human sociology, suppose that the horse grew until aged twenty or even
twenty-five and weighed three to five tons at maturity. Further, suppose that
you could not use a horse for transport or put it to plow or breed it until it
was at least fifteen years old. With such a daunting life history, would an
elephant-sized horse have ever attained the eminent world-wide role which the
horse has played in transportation, warfare, and agriculture? Would a giant,
slow-breeding water buffalo or ox have ever transformed Southeast Asian
agriculture? Clearly not, and this mental exercise demonstrates just how odd an
animal is the elephant - and the biological oddities pose only half of the
difficulties of keeping elephants.  p 
 p Beyond the purely physical challenges, suppose those
hypothetical giant horses or oxen or water buffalo were either wild-caught or
direct descendants of wild-caught animals and totally retained their natural
wild temperament. If about one out of three animals was a potential killer,
would a giant horse (or ox or water buffalo) have proved as widely useful as the
docile, normal-sized horse has through centuries? Would people continue to keep
dogs as pets and work animals if every third dog steadfastly retained a
thoroughly ‘vicious’, wolf-like demeanour? Clearly not.  p 
 p The elephant is, when it chooses, an exceedingly dangerous
animal. In North America more zoo and circus keepers are killed annually by
elephants than by all other animals combined, a great irony considering that the
public usually sees the elephant as a placid, kindly herbivore. Most man-killing
elephants are bulls but there are too many dangerous cows to automatically
assume benignity. (Indeed, even some calves are aggressive from infancy and
outright dangerous at the age of three or four.)  p 
 p Far quicker than its bulk would seem to allow, the elephant
can kill with its tusks, its forehead, its trunk (either by striking or lifting
and throwing), its mouth (by biting, a favorite of cows), its legs (by stomping
or kicking), or any combination thereof. Kicks come in astonishing variety with
both the front and back legs able to kick away from or into the body, the latter
a perfect prelude for yet more kicking under the belly. A killing attack often
comes as a combination of charging, kicking, and head-butting so fast and so
coordinated that the three components are inseparable to the eye. The
domesticated elephant, thoroughly accustomed to man’s presence, is
particularly adept.  p 
 p In everyday management, elephants fall into three classes:
some are never dangerous, some are dangerous only under very specific
circumstances (in the mahout’s absence, around trains, in water, etc.), and
some are dangerous all of the time. The proportions of the classes within a
group will vary somewhat according to sex-and-age structure and the quality of
training, but considering every third elephant to be dangerous is a very healthy
way of thinking.  p 
 p The first concomitant of keeping elephants is that human
deaths are unavoidable. The second concomitant of keeping elephants is that,
beyond physical prowess, profound knowledge is needed to control dangerous
elephants, and no amount of raw courage can replace knowledge for very long. The
masterly skills so long taken for granted in Asia are vanishing rapidly and that
loss will leave in its wake many dead mahouts and many dead elephants shot as
uncontrollable for lack of a master mahout. Traditional skills are lost very
easily, but the elephant’s essential temperament will not change.  p 
 p The scientific world greatly frowns on anthropomorphizing, the
unobjective belief that animals, particularly wild animals, have emotions or
personalities. Nonetheless, elephants have certain characteristics which sorely
tempt one into so thinking. Like the primates (including man) and the cetaceans,
elephants have brains which are small at birth and a long time growing, a
pattern usually interpreted as indicating high intelligence and a complex social
life. Elephants maintain a sense of play even as adults, a rare quality; Moss
(1988), upon watching rollicking African elephants, wrote in her notes:
“How can one do a serious study of animals that behave this way?”
Haynes (1991), an archaeologist attempting to use the behavior and ecology of
today’s Asian and African elephants to try to clarify the lives of extinct
mammoths and mastodonts, says, “Elephants teach each other by behavioral
example and directed communicated messages.... Elephants make a wide variety of
vocalizations to communicate mood, intent, and desire.” Many scientists
would have it that elephants have altruistic feelings, and some scientists have
gone so far as to suggest that this altruism sometimes extends beyond elephants
to other species. Clearly, keeping elephants is qualitatively different from
keeping conventional domestic animals not just because of their unique physical
characteristics but also because of their high intelligence.  p 
 p For describing true domestic animals, the word
‘temperament’ is allowable when speaking either of behavioral traits
presumed common to a breed or the typical behavior of a specific dog or horse,
etc. When used with people, ‘temperament’ clearly implies the nature
of an individual personality. Perhaps the word is inappropriate for domesticated
elephants, which are true wild animals, but somehow ‘temperament’
remains the most fitting word to describe what makes the behavior of one
domesticated elephant different from any other.  p 
 p For a manager forced to decide which mahout will ride which
elephant or which bull will mate a skittish cow, elephants clearly do have
individual temperaments or personalities. Whenever elephant keepers, whether
Asians or Westerners, swap elephant stories they will find an elephant
equivalent for everything from the holiest saint to an ax murderer, whether in
their behavior towards humans or even, as is often forgotten, towards other
elephants. The wise manager tries to match the unique behavior of each elephant
to each mahout. Assigning the wrong rider can ruin a good elephant, and putting
the wrong mahout atop the wrong elephant can easily get him killed. Illustrating
just how complex can be the interaction of human temperament and elephant
temperament, Evans (1910) wrote: “I have known the training of a previously
well-behaved animal to be lost to such a degree that she would endure neither
load nor rider, simply owing to the accident of being placed in the charge of an
irascible, fitful keeper, who first negligently indulged, and then wantonly
punished her.”  p 
 p By ‘keepers’ is meant both mahouts and owners.
Owners, through orders to their hired mahouts, have great direct effect on
elephants by controlling food, scheduling work, etc. The following discussion
examines the keepers from numerous perspectives which influence
management.  p 
 p The neologism ‘mahoutship’ is intended to be the
exact equivalent of ‘horsemanship’ and to carry all of that
word’s hoary connotations. sup 3  sup  Just as with horsemanship, the word
‘mahoutship’ implies that not only does the rider possess great
physical skill but he also has extensive transmitted technical knowledge and, in
a traditional culture, even a powerful spiritual or magical component.  p 
 p ‘Mahoutship’ is a badly needed word because a
disastrous decline in the quality of mahouts in nearly every country forces much
discussion of a loss of capability, and no existing word or phrase (‘the
level of skill of mahouts’ comes closest) serves nearly as well as
mahoutship. Asia’s traditional mahouts richly deserve such an evocative
word because the continent possesses traditions as varied and skilful as any of
the world’s great horse-keeping societies: the gauchos of South America,
the native Americans, the Mongols, etc.  p 
 p Mahoutship, like horsemanship, implies superb athletic
ability. Most Asian mahouts, and certainly all those who ride dangerous
elephants, are superbly conditioned athletes able to move around or on top of
elephants with the skills of an Olympic gymnast. Physical prowess is absolutely
fundamental to keeping dangerous elephants in traditional societies which lack
the hydraulic doors and elephant-proof walls of the West.  p 
 p Most Westerners nurse a serious misunderstanding of the
fundamental mind set of mahouts, at least today’s mahouts in the more
developed Asian countries. Inspired by Kipling stories, Sabu films, and the myth
of the boy and the calf who spend their whole lives together, Westerners tend to
lionize the mahout. Swayed by their own respect, Western researchers often
assume that mahouts must naturally take pride in their job and their
skills.  p 
 p Pride of profession was undoubtedly typical in traditional
societies. It is easy to imagine the pride of a mahout in the royal elephant
corps or a tribal lad nonchalantly riding a dangerous tusker through the
village, hoping to be noticed by all the girls. This might be the stuff of
movies, but it is also the stuff of life; unfortunately, such a sense of
self-worth survives poorly in rapidly developing countries. Whatever self-esteem
remains is felt only within the mahout’s own peer group, family, or tribe,
and even that pride is diminishing as traditional communities wither away.
Today’s mahouts, unlike their elephants, receive no respect or appreciation
from the larger society. One goal of a recent mahout training course in Kerala
was, according to Walker and Cheeran (1996), “to upgrade the image of
mahouts and the profession of mahout both in their own eyes, that of their
owners [employers], and the public.”  p 
 p Feelings of resentment, inferiority, and isolation dominate in
modernizing Asia, and there are many reasons for such self-deprecation.
Economically, nearly all mahouts are disadvantaged and many are genuinely
downtrodden. Socially, Asian societies accord great theoretical respect to the
elephant but very little to the mahout, who remains a sort of invisible man.
(Asia’s mahouts have not been and never will be glamorized and
institutionalized as was the North American cowboy.) Beyond contemporary
prejudices, all across Asia there also lingers the deeply buried and ancient
contempt of the agriculturist for the herder, the mahout being seen as an
uneducated fellow who works with animals. If the mahout should also happen to be
a tribal, as so many are, the feeling of inferiority is compounded.  p 
 p A Thai mahout known by the author is famous for his ability to
capture musth bulls run amok, a task he accomplishes through skill and physical
prowess but also, it is believed, through ‘charisma’ ( i baramii  i )
or a powerful mental domination over the elephant. This master mahout
paradoxically has a very low opinion of his own status in the larger society and
genuinely believes that anyone who drives a motor vehicle professionally is his
social superior. Less anecdotally, the results of an informal poll conducted in
Thailand amongst nearly 200 civil service mahouts, mostly sons of mahouts,
showed that not a single man wanted his own sons to follow in his footsteps and
not a single son intended to do so.  p 
 p Grasping an understanding of the mahout’s negative image
of self is important in Thailand and possibly even more important in Sri Lanka
and much of south and north India, where caste often compounds the alienation.
Any elephant manager in a post-traditional society must be aware of such
demoralisation before truly understanding what motivates many mahouts.  p 
 p A mahout’s view of self invariably influences his view of
his elephant. In particular, hired mahouts with no natural or
culturally-inculcated affection for elephants all too often see their elephant
as the cause of their woes and treat it accordingly. Outright cruelty is rare
but indifference is rife, and indifference leads to unhealthy, poorly nourished
elephants.  p 
 p When looking at elephant management, whether past or present,
there are three primary perspectives on groups of keepers: the institutional,
the socio-economic, and the cultural. The following discussion is quite general
with relatively few citations and examples, but many specific instances are
given and analyzed in the country profiles, particularly in
“Ownership,” “Mahoutship,” and “Cultural
dimensions.”  p 
 p The simplest analytical perspective on keepers from a
contemporary management point of view at present is whether a domesticated
elephant is owned by the state or by a private party. All of Asia’s largest
elephant-keeping countries have two domesticated subpopulations, privately-owned
elephants and government-owned elephants (mainly belonging to forest departments
or similar state enterprises). In terms of improving or reforming management,
the two institutional subpopulations have quite different needs.  p 
 p  i · See Table 3,
page 27, for data on private and government ownership.  i   p 
 p  b Government-owned elephants  b   p 
 p Government-owned elephants, which constitute approximately 20%
of the total Asian population, are found in Myanmar (about 2,900), Indonesia
(about 600), India (unknown, but perhaps 200), Thailand (about 80), Sri Lanka
(60), and a very few in Bangladesh and Nepal. Government-owned elephants until
recently worked primarily in forestry, but lately in Thailand and parts of south
India many forestry elephants have been put to work in tourism and
entertainment, the last alternative of a logging industry lost to deforestation.
In Indonesia and Sri Lanka, the government-owned elephants perform no labor at
all except for minor work in tourism and, in Indonesia, a few experiments in
skidding logs.  p 
 p Government-owned logging elephants are generally well cared
for and protected, although often there will be some pressure to overwork, as in
Myanmar, or problems with diet, as in Sri Lanka. Most government elephants get
excellent veterinary care, and they are very rarely sold. Even where problems
exist, government elephants are under central management and therefore reform
programs should be easy to implement. Across the continent, the biggest
management problem with government-owned elephants is a low birth rate, and
improved breeding is easy to achieve - at least from a biological point of
view.  p 
 p  b Privately-owned elephants  b   p 
 p Privately-owned elephants, on the other hand, are throughout
Asia almost totally neglected from a management perspective even though they
constitute 80% of the continent’s population. Lair (1986) identified and
discussed eleven areas in which many if not most privately-owned elephants fare
worse than government-owned elephants: manageability, legal status and
registration, identification and documentation, overwork and abuse, veterinary
care, habitat, food and nutrition, employment, economics and human sociology,
demographics and social life, and reproduction.  p 
 p “Presently the near total lack of government influence
over privately-owned elephants is an anachronism in an age when even in
developing countries nearly everything is taxed, licensed, or
controlled....,” wrote Lair (1986). No privately-owned elephants have ever
benefited from any extensive management program, whether by a national
government or an international agency. No privately-owned elephants are subject
to any regulatory process beyond the most rudimentary registration procedures;
no Asian nation has a licensing program which demands minimal standards of
competence from mahouts and minimal standards of care from owners. No Asian
country meaningfully regulates the buying and selling of elephants within its
boundaries, even, ironically, those countries which have ratified CITES and
strictly regulate external trade.  p 
 p Very little research of any sort has been done regarding
privately-owned elephants. Professionals and academics conducting research in
Asia, particularly Westerners but also nationals of a country, will
instinctively forge links with government elephant institutions so as to gain
funding, easy access to elephants, and qualified local counterparts. While this
natural partnership between researchers and government facilities is undoubtedly
the most efficient way to conduct pure science, the alliance does nothing to
explore the conditions of privately-owned elephants and their keepers. In every
Asian country there is a desparate need for some intensive research aimed at
privately-owned elephants.  p 
 p Three distinct classes of people have hands-on impact on
elephants: people who both own and ride elephants (henceforth termed
‘mahout-owners’), people who own but do not ride elephants
(‘non-mahout owners’), and people who only ride elephants (‘hired
mahouts’). These three classes hold up quite well in the field, with nearly
all elephant ‘keepers’ falling quite neatly into only one class. The
proportion of elephants owned by mahout-owners and non-mahout owners is often
culturally based and varies widely between countries and even regions within
countries. Non-mahout owners must employ hired mahouts, and thus these two
classes are totally interdependent, often unhappily. Each class of keeper, often
of different social status, naturally has its own perceptions of elephants and
its own standards of care.  p 
 p The three types of keepers can be described even more
succinctly from an economic perspective than a social perspective. Hired mahouts
are inevitably very poor, mahout-owners are almost always poor, and non-mahout
owners are mostly at least well-to-do and often wealthy. (Nouveau riche owners,
a modern problem, are wealthy by definition.) Distribution of wealth greatly
colors the relationships between the classes.  p 
 p  b Owner-mahouts  b   p 
 p The easiest group of keepers to accurately characterize is the
mahouts-owners: anywhere in Asia their elephants will be well treated, or at
least treated as well as possible. Most mahout-owners are part-owners in what
might best be termed ‘extended-family ownership’. (Each elephant
requires at least two men who can control it, and three is better; it is
exceedingly difficult for one man on his own to keep an elephant.) The elephant
is carefully tended not only because it represents much of the family’s
shared wealth, but also because family ownership is by its very nature
self-policing; anybody caught being abusive or hot-tempered or lazy will be
quickly brought back into line. Except for overwork, it is very rare to find an
intentionally abused elephant in the hands of mahout-owners, and even with
overwork the hardship visited on the animal is carefully measured against the
needs of the family. The lack of abuse on the part of mahout-owners does not
necessarily imply any great sentimentality; that might or might not exist, but
as part of the family’s survival strategy there is always a concern for
keeping the elephant in good health.  p 
 p Two exceptions exist to the general rule that mahouts-owners
are considerate, if not kind or humane, owners. First, some tribal
mahout-owners, particularly wild elephant catchers, do treat elephants pretty
roughly, seemingly as part of their culture’s ¾ or their
profession’s ¾ view of elephants. Second, at times when profits are
high, such as a boom in the timber trade, some mahout-owners will overwork some
elephants, even to death, particularly when a boom coincides with a ready source
of cheap unemployed elephants or cheap wild captives.  p 
 p  b Hired mahouts  b   p 
 p Hired mahouts are the next easiest class of keeper about which
to generalize. Wherever hired mahouts are found there is likely to be
significant abuse, particularly where there is poor supervision from owners.
Sloth is endemic, and many hired mahouts are too lazy or too resentful to spend
the large amount of time and energy needed to ensure that elephants are properly
fed and watered. Evans (1910) states that “the class of men usually
attending the elephants, if left to themselves, are from general indolence,
carelessness, or from a desire to avoid fatigue and hardships of jungle-life ...
quite liable to render their elephants unserviceable; ample supervision and
systematic checks can alone prevent malpractices.” Most hired mahouts work
under some sort of incentive system (piece rate or a wage with bonuses past a
work quota) so they will tend to overwork the elephant, particularly since it
does not belong to them. If a conscientious owner tries to limit the work, the
mahout will often surrepitiously seek outside jobs, thus cutting dangerously
into the elephant’s rest and feeding time. Kindness is, of course, to be
found. Some cultures (the Karen) might be intrinsically kind, some hired mahouts
are individually kind, and some hired mahouts are kind because they are very
strictly supervised - but, generally speaking, hired mahouts are prone to
mistreat elephants. Occasionally a hired mahout might even physically chastise
an elephant to get revenge on a hated owner. The relationship between hired
mahout and owner is often superficially polite but antagonistic under the
surface.  p 
 p In recent years a largely new class of hired mahouts has
arisen, at least in Thailand and south India: young men with absolutely no prior
experience with elephants. Not surprisingly, neophyte mahouts pose many
problems, some of which are described in the country profiles.  p 
 p  i · See
“Mahoutship (II),” page 254  i   p 
 p  b Non-mahout owners  b   p 
 p Non-mahout owners presently fall into two primary sub-classes,
traditional owners and nouveau riche owners. Traditional non-mahout owners are
families which for endless generations kept, bought, sold, hired, and rented out
elephants. Usually of high social class, traditional owners are well versed in
elephants and usually quite kind to them, often for deeply ingrained cultural
reasons. Unfortunately, while traditional owners seem to be a dying breed,
nouveau riche owners seem to be proliferating in all the more developed
countries, Thailand, India, and Sri Lanka. Mostly local businessmen with
new-found fortunes in real estate, logging, rice mills, and the like, nouveau
riche owners buy elephants for what to them is pocket change. Sometimes purely
status hungry, sometimes kind-hearted, nouveau riche owners nearly always spell
trouble for elephants because inexperienced owners, no matter how
well-intentioned, invariably lack the expertise needed to supervise their hired
mahouts.  p 
 p The following exploration of the cultural aspects of the
people who kept - and keep - elephants is necessarily very broad because,
whether past or present, so little is known about elephant keepers, particularly
from the perspective of social history. The questions raised are far from purely
theoretical, however, because cultural factors will largely determine the
quality of the mahouts who will care for Asia’s 16,000 domesticated
elephants in the future. Broadly speaking, keepers have fallen into three main
cultural types of keeping: the ‘tribal traditions’, the ‘palace
traditions’, and the ‘dominant-culture keepers’.  p 
 p  b The tribal traditions  b   p 
 p Since long before recorded history many if not most
domesticated elephants have been kept by indigenous peoples which have from
ancient times remained distinct from later dominant cultures or civilizations. A
word is needed to describe these peoples. ‘Minority group’ implies a
political nuance totally inappropriate whilst discussing elephant keeping; and
‘indigenous group’ is hopelessly vague. ‘Ethno-linguistic
group’, probably best in terms of anthropology, is awkward and somehow
fails to convey the deeper meaning. (‘Ethno-linguistic’ also fails to
deliver an adjective; to talk of ‘tribal mahouts’ and ‘tribal
training methods’ makes perfect sense, but ‘ethno-linguistic
mahouts’ and ‘ethno-linguistic training methods’ are impossible.)
The word ‘tribe’, although unfortunately holding derogatory
connotations in some Asian countries, is used very confidently in India as a
neutal, descriptive term, and that confidence would seem best in a book about
elephant managment, not anthropology or politics. In 1996 any concept of
‘tribe’ can only be totally affirmative, with each tribe being a
precious, surviving bit of human history and cultural diversity in a world
hybridizing all too rapidly. Tribes are the cultural equivalent of endangered
species.  p 
 p Caste in mahouts is interesting in view of the tribal
traditions. In Sri Lanka all mahouts are of low caste, as are the non-tribal
mahouts (other than Muslims) in south India, and low caste seems to lend many of
the psychological and sociological characteristics of being a tribal. Indeed, if
one could dig back hundreds or even thousands of years, the origin of low caste
mahouts might well lie in being an indigenous tribal people who inhabited the
land long before dominant-culture invaders. Lal (1974), writing of India,
states, “While at present it is often difficult to decide where the caste
Hindu ends and where the tribal begins, the distinction may, however, be traced
back to very early times....”  p 
 p Pondering the origins and evolution of the keeping of wild
elephants in domesticity, it is clear that the earliest practice must have been
done by tribal peoples. Even at Mohenjo-Daro, it was surely tribal people who
captured the elephants, not the dominant-culture artisans who made the famous
clay seals which constitute the evidence. Tribal people everywhere pre-date
dominant cultures, whether the ancient Aryans or the modern Thai, Burmese,
Vietnamese, Khmer, etc. In an analysis of elephants in the  i Mahabharata  i 
(an ancient epic portraying events which might have taken place between 1000 and
700 BC), Lahiri-Choudhury (1991b) wrote, “Experts in [elephant] warfare are
[described as] aboriginal hunting-fishing tribes, most of whom come from the
fringes of the area of Aryan settlement in northern India, and some are
expressly identified as hunters belonging to non-Aryan tribes.”  p 
 p Many of the surviving elephant-keeping tribes are also renown
for their prowess as hunters, suggesting the possiblity that with the arrival of
dominant cultures which developed a passion for elephants, some tribal men
switched from being hunters of meat to being hunters and keepers of live
elephants. Describing recent events in south India, Krishnamurthy and Wemmer
(1995a) say that the gazetting of protected areas cut off many tribals from
their right to hunt and gather, but, “In Tamil Nadu, elephant work was a
readily accepted alternative to their traditions....” Perhaps such an
occupational shift is just a modern reflection of an ancient pattern.  p 
 p Tribal cultures were the only significant traditional
elephant-keeping cultures to survive intact for long past World War II, but even
tribal keepers suffered development-related damage to the environment and to
culture. Deforestation in many countries - particularly Thailand, south India,
and Sri Lanka - over a few decades eliminated both many food sources for
elephants and many jobs for their owners. A decreased financial incentive to
keep elephants caused a fall in numbers, while a parallel decline in the
prestige conferred by elephant ownership steadily eroded cultural integrity.
Development invariably brings many influences invidious to tribal culture:
roads, television, literacy, education in the central language, a cash economy,
and ultimately the pressure to assimilate into the dominant culture.  p 
 p Cultural deterioration, as will be seen in many country
profiles, has been catastrophic in those countries which have avoided
international war and embraced development: Thailand, Sri Lanka, and much of
India. Tribal traditions still exist in Lao PDR, Cambodia, and Vietnam but the
number of keepers is so small as to pose a threat to viability. Only Myanmar and
northeast India have intact, sizeable tribal traditions.  p 
 p Tribal elephant-keeping cultures often appear robust while
actually being deceptively fragile. Any tribal culture is comprised of two
functionally interlinked components, the spiritual and the technical. Spiritual
components includes all of the cosmology, magic, and ritual, while technique
includes practical skills such as training, tying knots, health care, etc. In a
traditional context the spiritual and technical elements are totally
inseparable, but modern influences have robbed the spiritual of much of its
power. Without a spiritual foundation tribal systems of keeping elephants
survive poorly.  p 
 p  i · See
“Tribal mahoutship,” page 254, for problems brought by declining
cultures.  i   p 
 p Next to nothing, rather surprisingly, has been written about
tribal elephant-keeping cultures. What little has been written in English
concentrates on the human cultural aspects rather than the hands-on keeping of
elephants. Many of the rare written glimpses into tribal keeping deal with the
dramatic business of capturing elephants, and there is not a single useful book
or study treating any single tribe’s day-to-day keeping and training
methods, which are more mundane but far more complex than capture.  p 
 p  b The palace traditions  b   p 
 p The recently extinct elephant-keeping traditions of Moghul
emperors and Indonesian sultans, of Burmese and Sri Lankan kings, has brought
the tremendous loss of sophisticated management by aristocrats.  p 
 p Elephant-keeping aristocracies in ancient Asia closely
resembled the great chivalric kingdoms in medieval Europe, for example, and
masterful mahoutship was easily as important as horsemanship was in the West.
(Lahiri-Choudhuri [1995] implies that as far back as Neolithic times the
elephant might have played in the tropics the role that the horse played in
temperate climes.) Every young noble was expected to vigorously practice the art
of elephant warfare and specifically to master mounted single combat. Much of
the ceremony and metaphysical trappings of palace traditions was everywhere
influenced culturally by ideas from India, but much cultural content was also of
purely indigenous origin, contributed by local princes and their subordinates.
The result was a rich and variegated mosaic of ‘palace traditions’
spread across the continent.  p 
 p Because the palace’s ultimate use of elephants was in
warfare, the keepers of war elephants - both battle elephants and transport
elephants - were organized in a military chain of command, with the mahouts
being privates and kings being generals. (The vague term ‘war
elephant’, used by many writers, has created endless misunderstanding
because most ‘war elephants’ were non-combatant transport animals,
with only a few being actual ‘battle elephants’.) Palace elephant
departments boasted large full-time staffs with little work to do except to
perfect their craft under the close supervision of demanding and competitive
aristocrats whose goal was to produce elephants superior to those of their
peers. One Thai king was described (Wood, 1926) as “always either in the
forest hunting elephants, or in his palace, attending to state affairs.”
(This ruler, King Narai, was on his deathbed usurped by Phra Petracha - the
general in command of his war elephants [Sitsayamkan, 1967]).  p 
 p Indian miniatures and pictorial art portray an exquisite use
of ropes and hardware. A miniature by Zain al-’Abidin, c. 1600, shows a
bull elephant with two sets of restraint gear, one to discourage flight and
another to stop it once begun; another miniature of c. 1590 shows the Emperor
Akbar inspecting a newly caught elephant with beautifully tied ropes holding it
to a tree. If such sophistication was reached with hardware, then it must be
assumed that similarly lofty heights were reached in training, veterinary care,
nutrition, and, most pertinent, supervision and administration.  p 
 p Palace traditions began to decay many centuries ago when
firearms and artillery first reached Asian battlefields. Still, the end of the
use of elephants in actual combat had very little impact on domesticated
populations numerically. Even after losing their value as an actual weapon, all
potential battle elephants were still retained for ceremony or as transport and
draft animals, jobs which probably employed easily twenty times the number of
battle elephants. Palace traditions plummeted disastrously only with the coming
of colonialization, whereupon royalty realized that they must fight with modern
weapons and modern transport; elephants quickly became a useless and expensive
heirloom. The princes’ loss of interest brought a decline of funds and
manpower and, more telling, a loss of supervision from on high - in effect, a
mass desertion of the officer corps which is felt to this day.  p 
 p Mostly gone in the 19th century, only a few palace traditions
survived past World War II, primarily through the  i pilkhanas  i  (elephant
stables) of a few Indian maharajahs and a few white elephants in Southeast Asia.
In the Asian way, the particulars of training and keeping were not documented in
detail, and certainly the aristocrats felt no compulsion to record specific
techniques for posterity. (Of an attempt to research medieval European
horse-keeping technique so as to recreate a crusader’s journey, Severin
[1990] wrote, “Those who once travelled great distances rarely wrote down
the practical details because they seemed so obvious. Day-to-day techniques were
a part of their lives, and they certainly did not expect anybody else to have to
study them.”) Most writings were poetic or metaphysical, and only a few
works such as the Hasthividyarnava or the Arthashastra give any specific details
of hands-on technique. Today, the vast bodies of practical knowledge of
Asia’s many different palace traditions have vanished forever, the only
remnant being the memories of a few old men. Certainly nowhere has enough
knowledge of the old keeping techniques survived to even approach reconstructing
a single palace tradition.  p 
 p What was lost? The grandeur is missed, although that hardly
matters management-wise. Undoubtedly many forgotten keeping and training
techniques would be of great interest, but there are both surviving alternatives
and modern techniques to compensate for lost technique. The truly irreplaceable
loss brought by the passing of palace traditions was the loss of central
management and sophisticated supervision. Besides superb supervision of their
own elephant stables, palace traditions probably disseminated standards and
rules embodied in distinct systems which were widely shared across a
region.  p 
 p Today, nowhere in Asia is there a facility which cares for
elephants with anywhere near the scope, skill, and motives of vanished palace
traditions. Short of the unlikely event of Asian governments expropriating all
of their country’s privately-owned elephants to put them under state
management, only Indonesia has the opportunity to establish enlightened
large-scale management similar to a palace tradition. (Myanmar has thousands of
elephants under central management but all are put to work so gruelling as to
preclude anything resembling a palace tradition.)  p 
 p In all of Asia only Indonesia, the newcomer to elephant
keeping, has a chance to emulate the past - odd but fitting, since Indonesia had
various palace traditions which vanished only in the late 19th century.
Indonesia presently possesses three of the four essential ingredients for a
palace tradition: large numbers of elephants, central control, and a management
environment which allows for producing ideal elephants. Indonesia conspicuously
lacks the fourth ingredient, sophisticated traditional knowledge taught and
supervised by expert managers, but perhaps sophisticated modern knowledge could
be introduced to stand in tradition’s stead.  p 
 p Well-run forest department elephant-keeping systems are the
conceptual heirs of palace traditions, if not partial physical descendants. The
surviving government forestry establishments today (the Myanma Timber
Enterprise, the Forest Industry Organisation in Thailand, and the various state
forest departments in India) were modelled on the large teak firms of colonial
days, but those firms had earlier gained most of their initial expertise,
supervisorial personnel, and hierarchical organization - not to speak of
elephants - from the stables of local principalities and minor nobility, which
in the mid-19th century began divesting themselves of elephants. Sadly, forest
department elephant establishments in Thailand and India are mostly in a state
of terminal decline simply because the forests have been logged out.  p 
 p  b The dominant-culture keepers  b   p 
 p There must once have been a middle ground between the palace
traditions and the tribal traditions, and it is fascinating to speculate on the
nature of the linkage. The most perplexing question is clearly the degree of
participation of mahouts and owners who were ‘dominant-culture
keepers’, that is members of the civilization or race of the palace but not
closely affiliated with the palace. To what extent did ethnic Burmese commoners
- and Indians, Thais, Khmers, Vietnamese, etc. - work as mahouts? To probe the
obscure history of dominant-culture keeping, a useful device is to briefly paint
two plausible extremes. Readers should feel free to add whatever embellishments
or objections they wish.  p 
 p In the first scenario, tribal traditions were so prevalent
that there was little need for dominant-culture mahouts. Everywhere except Sri
Lanka there were plenty of elephant-keeping tribal peoples who were highly
mobile and able to travel long distances for work. Some tribals worked in the
stables of the aristocracy as hired hands. (To this day men of the Kui tribe are
the keepers of the King of Thailand’s white elephants.) Writing
particularly of south India, Krishnamurthy and Wemmer (1995a) say “The use
of tribal people as elephant handlers clearly pre-dated the establishment of
elephant camps by the British. Indian people evidently relied on tribals as a
source of jungle expertise, and to capture and train elephants....” Men of
the dominant culture preferred work in agriculture and the trades, shunning a
profession left largely to what was perceived as inferior peoples. Many
dominant-culture families were involved with elephants but mainly as powerful
owners and brokers employing large numbers of tribal mahouts. In northeast India
it was possible for dominant-culture managers to run huge operations employing
tribal mahouts, as described by Milroy (1922) or Stracey (1963); Shand (1995)
gives a more subjective glimpse of how such a dual-class system worked
socially.  p 
 p In the second scenario, the role of dominant-culture mahouts,
though sadly undocumented, was highly significant, particularly in central
lowland areas long cleared of tribal peoples. Only high numbers of
dominant-culture mahouts can explain the high numbers of domesticated elephants
cited in historical sources. Needing a reserve of elephants for war, from the
loftiest empires down to the lowliest principalities, the nobles not only
maintained their own elephant stables but also administered a sort of
elephant-keeping yeomanry or militia which could be mobilized in times of war.
(Probably the mahouts were accorded a social status one notch up from the
ordinary peasant.) Elephant keeping has in many places been an open profession
willing to employ any young man with the courage and tenacity to take on the
job. Krishnamurthy and Wemmer (1995a) write that, “In old Mysore state
non-tribal Muslims became occupational elephant men under the Maharaja of
Mysore.” Not so long ago in the Buddhist countries of Southeast Asia, in
particular, there must have been many dominant-culture mahouts, many of whom
quit riding and keeping elephants 40 or 50 years ago with the coming of
railroads and development to the lowlands. But just as farmers and cavalrymen in
Europe did not write about the daily lives of their horses and stable hands, the
way of life of dominant-culture keepers has passed away unrecorded.  p 
 p The balance of tribal and dominant-culture mahouts must lie
somewhere between these two extremes, and there is not enough hard evidence to
prove or disprove either hypothesis. The balance between tribal and
dominant-culture mahouts has also surely varied regionally, with many regions
dominated by either tribal or dominant-culture keepers and other regions holding
a mix.  p 
 p Many unexplored questions are posed by today’s remaining
dominant-culture keepers, particularly their origins, in the more developed
countries. Are they remnants of a palace tradition? Are some long assimilated
tribals? What are their motives for keeping elephants? Are many dominant-culture
mahouts are simply opportunistic newcomers? How skilful are they compared to
tribal mahouts?  p 
 p  b Conclusions: The cultural perspective  b   p 
 p The many palace elephant-keeping traditions have vanished
forever, and the palace traditions’ last spiritual heirs, the great forest
departments, are in terminal decline except in Myanmar. Many tribal
elephant-keeping traditions have died away and the surviving traditions are
severely threatened everywhere except probably Myanmar and northeast India.
Except possibly Myanmar, dominant-culture keepers, at least those of long family
lineage, are clearly on the wane. sup 4  sup  Who, then, is taking care of
Asia’s domesticated elephants?  p 
 p The relative proportions of tribal keepers and
dominant-culture keepers is a very important cultural factor effecting treatment
extended to elephants, with the tribals on balance providing more expert care.
As tribal cultures disintegrate under development, most of Asia’s training
and keeping  i systems  i  are well into fragmentation. In some countries,
notably Thailand, elephant-keeping systems are rapidly becoming degraded and
mongrelized. sup 5  sup   p 
 p When culture fails to motivate, the only possible reason for
keeping elephants is to make money, and where the only motivation is money, the
quality of care usually falls abysmally. When there is little or no money to be
made, elephants will be deserted as a useless burden, probably fondly remembered
by tribals and perhaps not so fondly by dominant-culture mahouts.  p 
 p  i · See
“Mahoutship (II),” page 254.  i   p 
 p Overwork is present everywhere. Evans (1910) wrote,
“Twenty years’ experience in this Province [Burma], during which time
I have had abundant opportunities for observing elephants and their treatment by
masters and mahouts, has compelled me to believe that in many instances (and I
say so with reluctance) a maximum of labour is exacted with a minimum regard
bestowed upon their wants and creature comforts - in other words, they are
‘sweated’.” A life spent skidding logs often consists of endless
drudgery punctuated by moments of extreme danger. Speaking of the
“elephants employed in forest operations in Burma,” Evans wrote,
“The percentage of deaths that annually occur amongst elephants employed in
this branch of the industry is probably from 10 to 20 per cent.”  p 
 p The elephant’s loss of utility results from the loss of
two major paying jobs, logging and transport. Logging is the best known and most
obvious type of lost work - actually now in the last throes of a lingering death
everywhere except Myanmar. Elephant logging has become famous largely because it
was so vividly described and romanticised by a few Teak Wallah authors, but from
a historical perspective the vast teak industry of colonial days was a minor,
short-lived, and virtually overnight aberration. Historically, skidding a log
was no different than dragging a boulder, a cut stone, a cannon, a road grader,
or even a plow.  p 
 p In terms of sheer numbers of elephants employed, the more
obscure type of lost work, transporting goods and people over rough terrain,
everywhere employed far more elephants than ever did logging, perhaps by a
factor of twenty or thirty. The elephant sounds a most unlikely pack animal for
mountains and swamps, but, while a bit slow, elephants are astonishingly
sure-footed, as delightfully pictured by Brock (1884) describing a tortuous trip
in northern Thailand: “I had ample opportunity of noting the sureness of
foot of the elephants, which seemed quite to enjoy the excitement of climbing
and descending the steep acclivities, mounting rugged slopes where a goat would
seem hardly to find a foothold, and sliding down-hill on their bellies, with
their forelegs spread straight out in front, and their hind legs behind, with a
self-command that a mule, using all his legs, might have envied.” The
peculiar anatomy of the elephant’s foot makes it probably the only draft
animal which is equally adept on both steep hillsides and soft, muddy
ground.  p 
 p At the turn of the century in Thailand there were said to be
20,000 transport elephants used around Chiang Mai alone, and that was just part
of a haulage web which spanned the whole region. Most of South and Southeast
Asia enjoyed similarly vast networks, most of which must have interconnected to
some degree. Today, though in much smaller numbers, transport elephants remain
irreplaceable in roadless country, especially during the rainy season, in
Myanmar, northeast India, Lao PDR, Cambodia, and Vietnam.  p 
 p As will be seen, in the more developed countries a lack of
employment is everywhere a grave threat facing owners and thus ultimately
elephants. Lair (1986) wrote, “Owners primarily concerned with profit will
tend to divest themselves of elephants once they no longer make money.” The
bottom line for the mahout-owner is the survival of his family, and when that
cannot be guaranteed elephants will be sold, if possible, or even
released.  p 
 p  i · See
“Employment (II),” page 252  i .  p 
 p Of the thirteen countries in Asia which have wild elephants,
eleven also have domesticated elephants: Myanmar, Thailand, India, Lao PDR,
Vietnam, Indonesia, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, and Malaysia.
Indonesia and Malaysia both lost highly valued domesticated elephant populations
in the last century. Indonesia is presently reintroducing the tradition by
establishing a new elephant culture which began with the hiring of Thai mahouts
as teachers and the use of Thai  i khoonkies   i to help capture wild
elephants.  p 
 p The available numbers for national populations in Asia range
widely in accuracy from reasonably complete registration efforts (Myanmar,
Thailand, and Indonesia), to intermediate efforts which might be called surveys
(Lao PDR, Vietnam), to a wide variety of informed opinion (India and Sri Lanka),
and then descend all the way to one guess for Cambodia (McNeely, 1975) which has
echoed through the literature for twenty years. Olivier (1978a) referred to one
early estimate of wild elephants in Thailand as a “tentative informed
guess,” a fair description of many of the numbers available about
domesticated elephants.  p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Table 2:  Likely numbers of the Asian elephant
( i Elephas maximus  i )  in domesticity sup 1  sup   b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Country  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Year  b   p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Elephants  b   p 
 p Myanmar  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1993  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 6,400  p 
 p Thailand  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1994  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 3,800  p 
 p India  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i c.1990  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 3,000  p 
 p Lao PDR  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1993  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 1,200  p 
 p Indonesia  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1995  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 570  p 
 p Cambodia  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i c.1995  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 500  p 
 p Sri Lanka  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i c.1994  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 500  p 
 p Vietnam  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1996  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 225  p 
 p Bangladesh  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1995  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 80  p 
 p Nepal  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1983  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 70  p 
 p Malaysia  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i 1996  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 20  p 
 p Total, Asia  p 
 p align="RIGHT" 16,365  p 
 p The West  p 
 p align="RIGHT"  i c.1996  i   p 
 p align="RIGHT" 950  p 
 p  sup 1  sup Figures are from the
“Likely” column of Table 3. All sources and criteria are given in
country profiles.  p 
 p The rationale for reaching the highs and lows in Table 3 (and
their average, presented as a convenience in Table 2) is given in country
profiles in “Number of domesticated elephants” along with proper
citation of sources. Low numbers comprise the irreducible minimum number of
elephants produced by surveys, where available, plus the very lowest possible
number of elephants likely to have gone uncounted; low numbers in the absence of
surveys proceed from the literature and interviews. High numbers proceed from an
attempt to balance all of the credible evidence for larger numbers: high-side
expert opinions in print, interviews, historical precedents, etc.  p 
 p Possible high numbers of elephants are difficult to estimate
because even in those countries with registration procedures, significant
numbers of elephants still lie beyond the reach of the authorities. In Myanmar,
for example, many elephants go uncounted in remote areas and in vast swathes of
territory largely beyond government reach. In Thailand registration methods are
lax enough that a significant number of elephants go unregistered.  p 
 p Reaching a single figure estimate for the domesticated
elephants in each Asian country is, considering the dubious data and conflicting
expert opinions, a taxing process. A single ‘most likely’ number is
nonetheless important if only to promote clear communication and to avoid
constant repetition of, for example, “the 3,800 to 4,000 domesticated
elephants in Thailand.” Even a simple comparison of two countries’
elephant populations becomes nightmarish if the likely highs and lows must be
constantly presented. The ‘most likely’ numbers presented in Tables 2
and 3 are not an arithmetical average of the low and high numbers, but rather a
middle figure swayed by intuition.  p 
 p Table 3 lists key parameters of domesticated elephants by
country in order of the likely number of domesticated elephants. Given where
available are the numbers of government-owned and privately-owned elephants, the
number of surveyed and registered elephants, probable high and low numbers, and
the most likely number between them. A plausible number for wild elephants is
followed by the ratio of domesticated elephants to wild elephants.  p 
 p National domesticated elephant populations sometimes share
characteristics with other countries. Below are discussed five mostly unrelated
affinities: the size of national populations, the domesticated-to-wild elephant
ratio, a cultural and religious divide, the effect of development, and
importance in conservation. These diverse subjects well illustrate the complex
nature and divergences of national populations.  p 
 p In terms of numbers, there is very obviously a ‘big
three’: Myanmar, Thailand, and India collectively hold about 13,200
elephants or 80% of the total in Asia. Each of these countries has domesticated
elephants which outnumber any of the second-tier countries by a factor of at
least three. Myanmar’s 6,400 elephants are by far the largest population,
38% of all domesticated elephants in Asia or about as many as Thailand and India
put together. Myanmar has even greater importance than its overwhelming numbers
suggest because it the only large population which enjoys largely intact habitat
and intact traditional keeping conditions.  p 
 p In the second tier, Lao PDR holds at least double the
populations of Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Indonesia, although if captures
of wild elephants on Sumatra progress as planned, Indonesia will surge past Lao
PDR around the year 2001. Bangladesh, Nepal, and Malaysia all have very small
numbers.  p 
 p Numbers of elephants are in any case only suggestive, not
diagnostic, of the health of a domesticated population. A population of 100
elephants with a normal number of animals of breeding age (mirroring the
population structure of a healthy wild population) has infinitely more
reproductive value than 500 elephants of a very high median age, such as the
nearly moribund population in Europe (Kurt, 1994). Unfortunately, in Asia there
is no hard data and only a few casual expert opinions, but it is safe to assume
that the median age is significantly higher than normal in Thailand, Sri Lanka,
and south and north India, none of which has self-sustaining birth rates. These
countries historically made up the shortfall by recruiting young captives from
the wild, but that infusion of youth has everywhere been lost with bans on
capture; if the low birth rates remain static, the median age must rise higher
as numbers fall lower with every passing year from the last captives.  p 
 p Olivier (1978a) frequently uses past high numbers of
domesticated elephants to argue for past high numbers of wild elephants; he does
so for the recent past in Thailand and Burma anddummytable 3also for the distant
past, particularly for parts of India. He writes, “I am sure that   the
enormous stocks of tame elephants once held there [India], reflect wild elephant
populations whose size would appear far out of proportion with any remaining
today.”  p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Table 3:  Various parameters of the Asian elephant
( i Elephas maximus  i ) in domesticity  b   p 
 p align="CENTER" --------Domesticated elephants -------  p 
 p align="CENTER" Year  sup 1  sup   p 
 p align="CENTER" Government  p 
 p align="CENTER" Private  sup 2  sup   p 
 p align="CENTER" Survey  sup 3  sup   p 
 p align="CENTER" Low  p 
 p align="CENTER" High  p 
 p align="CENTER"  b Likely  b   p 
 p align="CENTER" Wild elephants  sup 4  sup   p 
 p align="CENTER" Domestic. % of wild  sup 5  sup   p 
 p align="CENTER" Source b ,   b domesticity  sup 6  sup   p 
 p Myanmar  p 
 p  i 1993  i   p 
 p 2,873  p 
 p 2,718  p 
 p 5,591  p 
 p 6,000  p 
 p 7,000  p 
 p  b 6,400  b   p 
 p 5,000  p 
 p 128%  p 
 p MTE, Livestock  p 
 p Thailand  p 
 p  i 1994  i   p 
 p 79  p 
 p 3,480  p 
 p 3,565  p 
 p 3,800  p 
 p 4,000  p 
 p  b 3,800  b   p 
 p 1,350  p 
 p 281%  p 
 p Min. of Interior  p 
 p India  p 
 p  i c.1990  i   p 
 p @ 200  p 
 p 2,850  p 
 p -  p 
 p 2,500  p 
 p 4,000  p 
 p  b 3,000  b   p 
 p 25,500  p 
 p 12%  p 
 p Many  p 
 p Lao PDR  p 
 p  i 1993  i   p 
 p -  p 
 p 1,200  p 
 p 1,020  p 
 p 1,100  p 
 p 1,350  p 
 p  b 1,200  b   p 
 p 350  p 
 p 343%  p 
 p Livestock Dept.  p 
 p Indonesia  p 
 p  i 1996  i   p 
 p 570  p 
 p -  p 
 p 570  p 
 p 570  p 
 p 570  p 
 p  b 570  b   p 
 p 4,250  p 
 p 13%  p 
 p PHPA  p 
 p Cambodia  p 
 p  i c.1995  i   p 
 p -  p 
 p 500  p 
 p -  p 
 p 300  p 
 p 600  p 
 p  b 500  b   p 
 p 750  p 
 p 67%  p 
 p Interviews; guess  p 
 p Sri Lanka  p 
 p  i c.1994  i   p 
 p 60  p 
 p 480  p 
 p -  p 
 p 400  p 
 p 600  p 
 p  b 500  b   p 
 p 2,500  p 
 p 20%  p 
 p Many  p 
 p Vietnam  p 
 p  i 1997  i   p 
 p -  p 
 p 600  p 
 p -  p 
 p 200  p 
 p 250  p 
 p  b 225  b   p 
 p 450  p 
 p 50%  p 
 p Dawson  p 
 p Bangladesh  p 
 p  i 1996  i   p 
 p 12  p 
 p 69  p 
 p 77  p 
 p 80  p 
 p 80  p 
 p  b 80  b   p 
 p 225  p 
 p 35%  p 
 p Islam  p 
 p Nepal  p 
 p  i 1992  i   p 
 p 30  p 
 p 30  p 
 p -  p 
 p 60  p 
 p 80  p 
 p  b 70  b   p 
 p 55  p 
 p 127%  p 
 p Tuttle  p 
 p Malaysia  p 
 p  i c.1996  i   p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p 20  p 
 p 20  p 
 p  b 20  b   p 
 p 2,000  p 
 p 1%  p 
 p Daim  p 
 p China  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p 350  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p Bhutan  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p 75  p 
 p -  p 
 p -  p 
 p Total, Asia  p 
 p 3,844  p 
 p 11,927  p 
 p 10,823  p 
 p 15,430  p 
 p 18,900   p 
 p  b 16,355   b   p 
 p 42,855   p 
 p 38%  p 
 p The West  p 
 p  i c.1995  i   p 
 p 880  p 
 p 1,000  p 
 p 950  p 
 p Many  p 
 p  sup 1  sup  A “c.” means
‘circa’, i.e., not tied to any particular year.  p 
 p  sup 2  sup  ‘Government’ means government-owned
elephants, including state enterprises; ‘Private’ means
privately-owned elephants.  p 
 p  sup 3  sup  ‘Survey’ means elephants are either
registered or, less accurately, surveyed. ‘Low’ and ‘High’
are working minimum and maximums as discussed in country profiles.
‘Likely’ is ‘the most likely number’, for use when a single
figure is required.  p 
 p  sup 4  sup  The arithmetical mean of the high and low
estimates in Table 1 (Dr. Charles Santiapillai. pers. comm., 1996). The single
number implies no precision but is needed to compare wild and domesticated
elephants in the following column.  p 
 p  sup 5  sup  Domesticated elephants, from ‘Likely’,
are expressed as a percentage of wild elephants in the preceding
column.  p 
 p  sup 6  sup  All sources are fully cited
in “Number of domesticated elephants” for that country.  p 
 p Since few present day national domesticated elephant
populations in Asia have ever had a self-sustaining birth rate, high past
numbers of domesticated elephants speak not only of past high numbers of wild
elephants, but also of massive captures of those wild elephants. In many
regions, very high capture rates must surely have had grievous impact on wild
elephants, particularly because capture tends to concentrate in accessible areas
with favorable terrain.  p 
 p Countries with very high domesticated-to-wild elephant ratios
are of two primary types. In the newest and simplest type (such as in Lao PDR,
Vietnam, and all too likely Cambodia), the domesticated-to-wild ratio is very
high simply because poaching, war, and rapid habitat destruction have killed -
not captured - so many wild elephants as to dramatically and quickly elevate the
domesticated subpopulation’s share of the total population. The second and
more interesting case involves countries where high domesticated-to-wild ratios
have been much longer evolving and where most of man’s decimation of wild
elephants has been captures rather than kills. Myanmar’s domesticated
elephant population is equal to about 95% of the country’s probable wild
population, which, considering the low birth rate and known high recent
captures, argues overwhelmingly for massive past exploitation of many
generations of wild elephants. Thailand’s large domesticated elephant
population constitutes a phenomenal 280% of the probable number of wild
elephants.  p 
 p  i · See Table 3, page 27, for
country data on the domesticated-to-wild elephant ratio.  i   p 
 p  i · See
“Domesticated-to-wild ratio,” page 166, for Thailand’s
situation.  i   p 
 p Very little biodata exists to clarify the extent and exact
role which capture has played in creating the demographics of current
populations, although a stab might be taken for Myanmar, where an on-going
analysis of elephant log books might reveal much evidence. Many inevitable
questions are unanswerable. How many of today’s domesticated elephants were
wild-caught? How many years ago were they captured? How old were they at
capture? Could the average age of domesticated elephants in Thailand be very
high because of many survivors of massive captures four or five decades
ago?  p 
 p Such questions are unanswerable with any certainty. The one
certainty is that in all countries with a high domesticated-to-wild elephant
ratio, irregardless of the cause, the domesticated elephant subpopulation will
become increasingly important in national conservation, particularly because of
their high survival rate should there ever be a need to release them into the
wild.  p 
 p The elephant-keeping countries of Asia comprise two
geographically distinct groups separated also by religion and culture, what
might loosely be called a Hindu bloc and a Buddhist bloc. (These blocs
correspond closely with the geographic and geopolitical terms, ‘South
Asia’ and ‘Southeast Asia’.) The Hindu or Brahminic bloc is Sri
Lanka and India (including Nepal but excluding tribal areas of the northeast);
while the Buddhist bloc is comprised of Myanmar, Thailand, Lao PDR, Cambodia,
and Vietnam. (Muslim Indonesia’s reintroduced tradition is so new as to be
totally extraneous to the cultural divide on the mainland; Bangladesh and
Malaysia are Muslim but their populations are too small and too anomalous to be
relevant.)  p 
 p Caste pervades elephant keeping in the Hindu bloc, with even
tribal mahouts in south and north India mostly working for and under the style
of high-caste Hindus. Sri Lanka is, of course, a predominantly Buddhist country
and virtually all mahouts and owners are Buddhist; the elephant keeping,
however, remains steadfastly Hindu in its essentials, based on Brahminic
cosmology and a strict caste system. Despite the great religious significance of
elephants in Sinhalese Buddhism, hands-on elephant keeping shares far more
culturally with neighboring south India than with fellow Buddhist countries far
to the east.  p 
 p Both blocs also have tribal keepers who are mostly animists
although some animists have an overlay of Buddhism, Hinduism, or even
Christianity. Tribal mahouts are quite common in most Buddhist countries, as
will be seen. Sri Lanka has no tribal keepers, although its low-caste mahouts
might have been so thousands of years and today fill the same niche. There are
tribal mahouts in south and north India; elephant keeping in northeast India,
which is mostly tribal, generally shares far more culturally with neighboring
countries than with India.  p 
 p The Hindu-Buddhist elephant-keeping schism is highly
subjective in many aspects but nonetheless very tangible when relating with
mahouts in the field. Hindu and Buddhist mahouts and owners have different
culturally inculcated beliefs, including different styles and philosophies of
elephant keeping. There seems to be a more direct, emotional connection between
man and elephant in the Buddhist east and a more distant but no less masterful
man-elephant relationship in the Hindu bloc.  p 
 p Beyond such abstractions, the Hindu bloc suffers three
culturally-induced problems which will in three observable ways confront any
modern management scheme in the field. First, the Hindu bloc has rigid caste
systems which, at least in modern times, lower the mahouts’ self esteem and
thus create a peculiar personnel problem. Second, the Hindu bloc has a very high
proportion of hired mahouts compared to mahouts who own the elephants they ride,
a situation which often brings poor care to elephants. Third, and most
quantifiable, the elephants kept in the Hindu bloc have much lower birth rates
than those kept in the Buddhist nations to the east. The Hindu bloc’s
almost total lack of births arises from ancient metaphysical inhibitions and
prohibitions. (Low birth rates and the probable cultural causes are discussed in
the country profiles for India and Sri Lanka.) Most Buddhist and tribal elephant
keepers at least allow breeding and many encourage breeding, so that birth rates
in the Buddhist east, while not self-sustaining, are on the whole reasonably
good.  p 
 p World War II was a watershed period for many of Asia’s
domesticated elephant populations, not so much because of the destruction the
war brought (that was limited largely to Burma) but because the end of the
fighting bought new technology, most especially the introduction of machines for
dragging and hauling in forestry. Some countries developed so rapidly - at a
rate made possible only by Western methods, particularly building roads with
heavy machinery - that the environment surrounding the elephants, both wild and
domesticated, was decimated within two or three decades: forests lost, lowland
habitat lost, and a precipitous fall in paying work. Except for Myanmar,
domesticated elephants have experienced a steady and inexorable decline since
the critical juncture of World War II.  p 
 p When assessing potential international management efforts
aimed at common problems, development and its effects dictates the most useful
groupings of countries.  p 
 p Myanmar is a bloc unto itself, the world’s largest
national population of domesticated elephants in the habitat least damaged by
development.  p 
 p Indonesia is in a position uniquely its own. While in other
countries development has gravely damaged elephant keeping, in Indonesia
development actually created the need for elephant keeping by driving wild
elephants from the forests and forcing government to capture many of them. (Once
in captivity, elephants in Indonesia do suffer problems brought by development,
particularly a lack of food.)  p 
 p Thailand, India, and Sri Lanka, all relatively developed
countries, have enjoyed relatively stable governments and avoided the horrors of
international war, all the while working to develop their economy. Peaceful
development has, however, brought extreme environmental degradation in all three
countries, greatly reducing food sources for elephants and work opportunities
for their owners. All three domesticated elephant populations are apparently
growing moribund; capture has been banned to protect wild elephants, and birth
rates are too low to sustain numbers, particularly in India and Sri Lanka. All
three countries are also suffering a severe, development-induced decline in the
quality of mahoutship. On the positive side, however, peaceful development has
brought Thailand, India, and Sri Lanka a free press, a well-informed and vocal
middle class, and, more recently, NGOs powerful or influential enough to goad
and guide lethargic government agencies into action.  p 
 p Lao PDR, Cambodia, and Vietnam - or ‘Indo-China’ -
have many contiguous borders and, not surprisingly, face similar problems. All
three countries have small and poorly known domesticated elephant populations
recently ravaged by the horrors of war - and all three are now being hurt by
post-war development. (The decades-long Indo-China conflict brought great
physical destruction, but it might have preserved forests and thereby saved
tribal cultures; war is far less destructive of culture than is development.)
The Indo-China countries seem to now be receiving the worst of development while
still lacking orderly development’s partially compensating benefits; far
more quickly than did their neighbors, Lao PDR, Cambodia, and Vietnam will get
dams, skidders, chainsaws, and roads, but without the benefit of plentiful
trained scientists, without an active media, and without progressive and
dedicated NGOs.  p 
 p From an animal husbandry perspective, Myanmar is the jewel in
the crown. A pragmatist concerned solely with preserving large, sustainable
numbers of domesticated elephants and not caring about national heritage or the
fate of local genotypes might well decide to pour all available resources into
Myanmar and let the other countries decline without support. Indonesia is of
conservation importance far beyond its sizeable and steadily growing numbers
because its elephants are almost entirely government-owned and thus extremely
manageable as a group.  p 
 p From the perspective of international science and
conservation, all countries are equally important because of the local genotypes
they hold. From a national conservation perspective, all counties are
indubitably of equal importance. Who is to say that Bangladesh’s 77
elephants are less important to its 100 million people than Thailand’s
nearly 4,000 elephants are to its 60 million citizens?  p 
 p  i · See Table 25,
page 258, for human-to-elephant ratios in Asian countries.  i   p 
 p align="center" 
 a href="ac774e05.htm#TopOfPage"  img src="back.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Previous Page" border="0"   a 
 a href="#TopOfPage"  img src="top.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Top of Page" border="0"   a 
 a href="ac774e07.htm#TopOfPage"  img src="next.gif" width="43" height="35" alt="Next Page" border="0"   a 
  p 
