 p Their long necks help giraffes eat leaves from tall trees, typically acacia trees. If they need to, giraffes can go for several days without water. Instead of drinking, giraffes stay hydrated by the moisture from leaves.  p 
 p Giraffes can be found in central, eastern and southern Africa. Giraffes live in the  a href="http:  www.defenders.org grasslands tropical-grasslands" savannas  a  of Africa, where they roam freely among the tall trees, arid land, dense  a href="http:  www.defenders.org forest basic-facts" forests  a  and open plains.  p 
 p Giraffes are non-territorial, social animals. They travel in large herds that are not organized in any way. Herds may consist of any combination of sexes or ages.  p 
 p Giraffes have small "horns" or knobs on top of their heads that grow to be about five inches long. These knobs are used to protect the head in fights.  p 
 p  strong Reproduction  strong  br 
	Female giraffes typically give birth to one calf after a fifteen-month gestation period. During the first week of its life, the mother carefully guards her calf. Young giraffes are very vulnerable and cannot defend themselves. While mothers feed, the young are kept in small nursery groups.  p 
 p Giraffes are hunted for their meat, coat and tails. The tail is prized for good luck bracelets, fly whisks and string for sewing beads. The coat is used for shield coverings.  a href="http:  www.defenders.org habitat-conservation defending-habitat" Habitat destruction  a  and fragmentation are also threats to giraffe populations.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
