 p class="p1"  span class="s1" There are few living animals as iconic as the giraffe. Yet despite their fame, giraffes are not often the subjects of scientific research, and that means many mysteries still surround these towering mammals. Now, a new study has found that they're deserving of at least four times the attention they've been getting.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Giraffes are spread out across several countries in Africa, but they're classified as one species:  em Giraffa camelopardalis  em . Most scientists have generally agreed that the various populations scattered across the continent represent nine different  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Giraffe#Subspecies" target="_blank" subspecies  a  em .  em  But when Julian Fennessy of the  span class="s2"  a href="http:  giraffeconservation.org " Giraffe Conservation Foundation  a  and his team  span  examined the genetics of these groups, they found a lot more variation than they expected.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" To analyse giraffe genes, the researchers took DNA from skin biopsies of nearly 200 giraffes from all nine subspecies, making this the most inclusive such study ever performed. Instead of nine closely related genetic groupings, the results revealed four very distinct groups, each as different from the next as a grizzly is from a polar bear. This degree of genetic distance reveals that these groups aren't doing much breeding with each other, so the scientists suggest they be considered four separate species.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" "We were extremely surprised, because the morphological and coat pattern differences between giraffe are limited," said co-author Axel Janke in a press release. This sort of surprise is why genetic studies are so important: DNA often holds hidden secrets we can't see from the outside.  span    p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" You might think it would be hard for giraffes to keep such big secrets from science – they seem pretty unlikely to slide under the radar, literally and figuratively! – and yet they've received little attention compared to other African mammals like elephants, rhinos or lions. And this is a shame, because these "forgotten giants", as Fennessy calls them, are in dire need of our help.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" According to the Giraffe Conservation Foundation, populations have fallen 40% over the past two decades, with fewer than 100,000 individuals remaining today. In fact, the animals have already disappeared from several African countries. "The world assumes they are everywhere," Fennessy told me in an email. "Relatively little education, awareness and conservation action has been focused on or around them to date."  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The results of his study tell us that Africa may not be home to just one giraffe species with low numbers, but to  em four  em  species, each with perilously small populations. "As an example," Fennessy said in the press release, "northern giraffe number less than 4,750 in wild, reticulated less than 8700, making them some of the most endangered large mammals in the world."  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The science of categorising species is called taxonomy, and such studies are often the subject of scientific disagreement, but the researchers are quite certain of their findings. "The data are very solid, so I do not expect a hot debate,"  span Janke  span  said via email.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Instead, the scientists are hoping these results will spark conversations about how best to protect these four endangered species. "With now four distinct species, the conservation status of each of these can be better defined and in turn added to the  a href=" conservation endangered iucn-red-list-you-know-about-pandas-but-how-did-other-animals-fare" target="_blank" IUCN Red List,  a " said Fennessy. "Hopefully the study will create discussion – and importantly, help to support giraffe conservation."  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" __  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Top header image:  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos alex1derr 20984278353 " target="_blank" Alex Derr, Flickr  a   span   p 
 p 
                            David Moscato is a science communicator, writer and educator with a background in palaeontology. Follow him  a href="https:  twitter.com dmos150" target="_blank" @DMos150  a  or on his blog,  a href="http:  the-meniscus.blogspot.com " target="_blank" The Meniscus  a .  a href=" contributors contributor?mId=27050" VIEW more from this CONTRIBUTOR  a 
                          p 
 p Our planet is a busy, crazy place. And amidst all the noise, voices get lost and some stories are never heard. That’s especially true of our planet’s countless wild species: big and small, threatened and persecuted, complex and fascinating.  p 
 p For our growing team of writers and contributors, those are the stories that matter most: we dedicate our time to them all day and every day. In a world bursting with news, nature is our niche – and we love it that way.  p 
 p You, our viewers, are passionate about these stories we tell. Take your passion further by supporting and driving more of the nature news you know and love.  p 
 p Giraffe hunting is no easy feat.  p 
 p When hungry lions set their sights on a giraffe calf in a South African reserve recently, its mother's defensive prowess just wasn't enough to save...  p 
 p So this giraffe walks into a bar … 
  p 
 p Get the latest nature news, views and videos delivered to your inbox.  p 
