 p class="style8"  strong Jody Berland  strong   p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style14"  strong A  strong   span  strong ttending the Giraffe  strong          p 
 p Imagine being one of the first  people outside of Africa ever to  see a giraffe. No one you know has ever seen  such a thing, it is entirely strange. If you belong to the inner circle of a  powerful king or emperor’s estate, you may have seen elephants, monkeys, lions,  and other exotic species arrive from distant places you will never see, and  added to the private collection.   Captured from their natural habitats and isolated from other members of  their species, the new animals’ appearance in the menageries and zoos of China  and Europe was part of creating new relationships between emperors and kings,  new empires and their distant territories. What the animal “meant” to  collectors and viewers in these early menageries was not so much “species” em  —   em a  concept that did not yet exist em  —   em as curiosities, a wordless demonstration of  the sender’s imagination and power to bridge two worlds.     p 
 p In 1414, a ruler in Bengal shipped  a giraffe to the Emperor of China. The gift was a tribute, a gesture of good  will cementing the special powers and potential economic relations of two  rulers. Sparse records of this  event include an ancient  painting and some brief academic commentaries tracing the story of “the  emperor’s giraffe.”   p 
 p We know very little about how  exotic animals arrived to populate early modern menageries. sup  a href="#f1" 1  a   sup  How did they capture the giraffe? Why was there only one? What  kind of ship would carry a giraffe from Africa, where it originated, to Bengal, and then to China, in the 15th  century?  If the ship changed the life of  the giraffe, did not the giraffe also change the shape and purpose of the ship?  Imagine them together, the ship  and the giraffe, crossing an ocean, crossing cultures, and  launching a new world order.   p 
 p A painting was made of this tribte giraffe that is considered historically important today. The  fate of the giraffe featured in this painting is unknown. There is no record of affectionate relations  between humans and giraffes in this or other early menageries, which is not to  say that such relations did not exist yet em  —   em only that those who had ongoing personal encounters with  the animals were not those  authorized to record such events for  posterity. To  understand better the  modern world and  its organization of people, places, and animals, we need  to establish that the giraffe was  as much a medium of communication as the ship that carried it. The tribute was a ritual exchange performed in  anticipation of an altered future. It demonstrated  both the inviting mystery of a distant natural world, embodied  by the animal, and growing human  mastery over nature, embodied by the ship. Its arrival altered relations  between two imperial powers and helped to precipitate the emergence of  transcontinental trade, an enterprise that became, through complex historical  processes, world  capitalism.   p 
 p To borrow McLuhan’s well-known phrase, the medium is the  message, and in this story, the medium is an animal. To elaborate this idea, and  to consider some of its implications, I compare the story of the 1414 tribute  giraffe with the story of April, the famous pregnant giraffe of 2017. Both giraffes were conscripted to enact a complex social  ritual that brought together and changed the people involved in the event. To  play this role, the giraffes had first to be conveyed from natural habitats  into confinement, from distance into quasi-intimacy with European and global  observers, from matriarchal family structure into an individual with a face  that could at least hypothetically look back at its human viewer. Each step of being made visible relied on  something else being made invisible. I will argue that this double act of foregrounding  and disappearing has discursively shaped both our relations with animals and  the visual aesthetics of modern culture.   p 
 p Let’s start  with the visible. Giraffes are so oddly crooked, so lovely with their earthy savanna  colors and placid herbivore demeanor, so unreachable and tall. In the west, they are popularly associated with  menageries and zoos, children’s toys, textile  designs, African safaris, and more recently, the prospect of extinction. The 1414 giraffe launched new topographical  imaginations and powers associated with its arrival, and “new ways of organizing nature,” as Jason Moore writes in “The Rise of Cheap  Nature.”  Encompassing humans, animals,  and geopolitical space, these new powers laid the groundwork for the emergence of capitalism as a “world-ecology” ( a href="#moore" 86, 85  a ). br 
         p 
 p April the  pregnant giraffe of 2017 did not cross an ocean, but her image did. The  screening of April’s pregnant pacing stimulated an audience of millions excited  by the prospect of seeing her give birth online. Their desire to witness  April’s prolonged pregnancy day after day can only be understood in relation to  the largely unspoken and unseen effects of loss among endangered animals, together with the absence of direct  interaction with undomesticated animals in their everyday lives. Six hundred years passed between these two  events, a passage marked by the emergence of a capitalist world order and growing public anxiety  about precarity and environmental risk. This precarity, a consequence of what  has been named the Anthropocence, is widely conceptualized as the result of human domination of and estrangement from nature, beginning with the industrial  revolution and or the rise of modern science (Moore,  em op. cit  em .). But  tracing the story of the tribute giraffe reminds us that in the process of  colonization some people were estranged from nature, while others were defined  and exploited by  their proximity to its  resources. These others had to develop methods or techniques to capture, kill,  and transport animals for purposes previously unknown to them. Together with  their habitats and lands, these others came to comprise the back stage from  which colonial subjectivity and the power of capital were extracted and  performed. The giraffe made visible in  this process represented and extended the influence of the nobles from Bengal,  but not that of the Africans who captured the giraffe and arranged for its  export to Bengal, or the animal keepers who accompanied the giraffe to China. This  giraffe reminds us that it is important, when we talk about human destruction, to  ask,  em whose   em Anthropocene?  em Which   em humans? As Dikesh Chakrabarty  reminds us, “The story of capital, the contingent history of our falling into  the Anthropocene, cannot be denied by recourse to the idea of species, for the  Anthropocene would not have been possible, even as a theory, without the  history of industrialization” ( a href="#chakrabarty" target="_blank"  strong Chakrabarty 219-220  strong   a ). Add this probing postcolonial question to McLuhan’s media theory  and Goffman’s cartography of social interaction, and you have  begun to bridge the lives  and surrounding cultures of two celebrity giraffes separated by six centuries.         p 
 p Non-human animals have mediated  social relations throughout  history. They have played a significant role in relations between rulers, between  families, between landowners and peasants, colonial invaders and Indigenous  peoples, governments and subjects, technologies and users, environmentalists and climate change deniers. In conditions of  mobilization or movement they sometimes function as what cultural anthropologists and Star Trek fans call  em first   em  em contact  em  between groups or territories.  The 1414 giraffe, sent from one Asian ruler to another, represented  both difference and the possibility to cross that difference. First contact mediators and the narratives that surround  them help make sense of the unknown, and they have important but diverse semiotic consequences. As  a href="#liu" Alan Liu  a  observes, “first contact”  encounters also arise in relation to new media when familiar images help users  to befriend and navigate the daunting technology and to imagine where the  interaction might lead. However  familiar, these images cannot fully predict or control how media will reshape  the cultures or subjectivities of the people who engage with them. Liu is not thinking of animals when he describes first  contact narratives drawing users into new media. But in the 1970s and 80s, in  the dawn of the so-called Information Age, and even today, many  entrepreneurs have put this idea into practice. Tigers, penguins, monkeys,  birds, lizards, lions, and cats have all served as friendly mediators for  navigators looking to find their way into new interfaces ( a href="#berlandguide" cf. Berland, “A Visitor's Guide”  a ). They  mean something different from these early menageries, but they would not be  conceivable without them.   p 
 p If an animal can be a medium, and not just the content of a photograph, painting, or advertisement, and not just the  body of an animal, what exactly is it mediating? The fascinating complexity of this question  makes the idea of the animal medium worth examining. Most obviously the naming  of the animal as a medium is a project in the relatively new project of media  archaeology, which seeks to rewrite the archives of human culture in search of  their underlying material histories. Despite  this project’s notable attempts to counter anthropocentrism, this endeavor has  rarely (with the notable exception of Nicole Shukin’s a href="#shukin"  Animal Capital  a ), accommodated the non-human  animal as part of such histories. Reframing this initiative to include the nonhuman animal highlights the  animal’s role as what Derrida calls a supplement to the social relationship in  which it appears. The supplement both adds to and takes the place of the human subject  to which it is added, thus rebalancing or more accurately unbalancing the  architecture of personal and political relations in which it appears. A text  adds a layer of meaning to, and simultaneously diminishes the established  authority of, a field of knowledge; a new child expands and disrupts a  relationship or family; a new technology enhances and displaces the bodies and work  practices of people who engage with it.        p 
 p As hinted in the way I have  described it, there are parallels between this idea and McLuhan’s study of  media as “extensions of man,” providing extensions of our limbs and senses that  simultaneously enhance and displace their powers. The car extends our feet but  also diminishes their importance and the autonomy of the human body, an  observation that applies equally to spectacles, telephones, and gloves. The way  our limbs and senses require supplementation in order to flourish is the comparative  strength and weakness of the human species. There is an analogy to be made here  (especially for readers of Harold Innis, Canadian communication  theorist and mentor of McLuhan, who  emphasized the relationship between  communication and empire) between this extension of the body and the way a  giraffe supplements an emperor.   p 
 p We are back at the beginning of the  modern period, and the emperor is seeking to expand his power as though more  territory will make him more powerful, as though his territory is somehow  inadequate on its own. By sending an animal as tribute to a potential ally, the  ruler conveys the exotic richness of his country, and by making the wealth of  his country appear to depend on the supplementation of the proposed alliance he  also makes it potentially subject to invasion through or despite its  expansionary drive. Throughout the  modern period, as territories or countries are colonized, they are  (inequitably) enriched by the exportation of their material resources and yet diminished  by their dependency on external powers. This relationship is commonly expressed  in a reliance on images of wild nature, of “otherness,” so that a country’s  destiny seems to be “defined by em  —   em and perhaps limited to em  —   em its beauty, wildness and  natural wealth” ( a href="#berlandanimal" Berland, “Animal And as Medium” 90  a ). Now consider this pattern of colonial  supplementation in  relation to Irving Goffman’s idea  that human social interaction is  essentially theatrical. Advocating in  a href="http:  www.depauw.edu site humanimalia issue%2017 berland.html#goffman"  strong  em The  Presentation of Self in Everyday Life  em   strong   a  for a dramaturgical  approach to the study of human behavior, Goffman shows that the “presentation of self” entails  the strategic employment of select personal features and behaviors or “faces” that  are distinct from those lived and more or less hidden “back stage.” Modern  countries continue to symbolize themselves through their most beautiful or  symbolically potent animals. We do not see the labor and exploitation that  enables the distant or proximate other to appear in the guise of beautiful  wilderness and wonder.   p 
 p These ideas can be  somewhat accommodated within an appropriately expanded field of media archaeology enriched by  the recognition that the history of natural resources is also a history of  colonialism.  But the animal body is also  different from dust, copper, chemicals, or gold; it does not disappear quietly  into the image making apparatus, and has never done so.  Furthermore, whatever physical  materialities are mediated in the acts of communication through  which we become who we are, all societies involve conflict, and human conflicts  are also expressed and negotiated through culture. As a mediator of social  exchange, an animal medium can be simultaneously a body of bones and blood, a  political tribute, a theatrical supplement, a ritual event, a resource for  financial exploitation,  em and  em  a resource for hope in the face of an  ominous future. Recognizing culture as both symbolic negotiation and material  infrastructure is essential to understanding how and why animals appear in the  midst of human social relations and cultural events.   p 
 p  strong Welcoming  the exotic.   strong          Ownership of  menageries was a common feature of aristocratic life in Roman and medieval  times. Records of their collections include elephants and lions, but not  giraffes. sup  a href="#f2" 2  a   sup  The famous 1414 giraffe, born in what is now Kenya, was  shipped from Bengal to the Middle Kingdom, where it was decisively  misunderstood as a species. The only communication that preceded its arrival  was a rumor, a word that meant “monster,” and since they expected to see a  monster comprised of parts of various animals, that is what they saw. The Chinese court welcomed this camel-leopard  monster with great fanfare; it was exotic, it was irresistible, and it was a  tribute to their greatness. Who caught the giraffe, who  accompanied her, who fed her, who saw her, how long she lived, what she thought about her experience, all  this is unknown. br 
         p 
 p        Despite the promising reception of  this tribute, Chinese trade ended by the middle of the 15th century ( a href="#ringmar" Ringmar 376  a ). But the new career of giraffes as emissaries of international trade had just  begun. Egyptian rulers sent several giraffes to Europe, first to Lorenzo de’ Medici in Florence in 1486, and then,  several centuries later, to King George IV of England and King Charles X of  France, in 1827. Note the dates of these  gifts, writes Eric Ringmar in the  em Journal  of World History  em . If these giraffes  were not the first to arrive in Europe, they held particular historical  importance.   p 
 p The first [1486] giraffe appeared right  before the Europeans em  —   em Florentine explorers prominently among them em  —   em went off to  discover what was to become “America.” The second giraffe appeared only  three years before France’s first imperialist venture began em  —   em the bloody war in,  and subsequent occupation of, Algeria. By studying how the Europeans reacted to  these two animals, we should be able to  understand better how they regarded the  extra-European world  at the cusp of the two waves of expansion. (377-378)  p 
 p Sent from one ruler to another,  the giraffe could have been, and was in a sense interchangeable with, gold or  silk brocade  a href="#zielinski" (Zielinski)  a . But the giraffe had unique persuasive powers. Like other  curiosities of the early modern period, it  stimulated a combination of carnal  acquisitiveness and a more disinterested curiosity about natural science. sup  a href="#f3" 3  a   sup  It was even greater curiosity because giraffes do not fight or eat other animals, which  made them a novel innovation in the arena of courtly entertainment,  disrupting what people expected of exotic animals  a href="#williams" (Williams 52)  a .   p 
 p This  peaceful disposition did not reduce its charismatic power. Ringmar writes:   p 
 p When suddenly seeing something that surpassed  the expected in beauty, diversity, or abundance, the mind was overwhelmed. People were first astonished, then delighted, and finally excited. Clearly  there was something highly addictive in this mixture of emotions. It piqued  people’s curiosity, and once they had seen a little, they wanted to see more.  Obviously, in terms of height and sheer impact, there was no more marvelous, or  more curious, animal than a giraffe.  a href="#ringmar" (379)  a          p 
 p Giraffes were able to  convey the quality of the marvelous even after they had ceased to be  “curiosities” as such, that is to say, after acquiring them ceased to be novel  or exclusive to the private amassment of wealth and knowledge. They have become  more accessible outside of Africa through their presence in public zoos,  natural history museums, films, and pictures. They flourish in children’s  culture, providing friendly anthropomorphic figures for early object attachment  while linking kids to a commodity market that is more and more child-centered. Combining childhood attachment,  commercial mediascapes, and ecological vulnerability, the giraffe’s meanings  continue to accumulate. This transformation alters what we understand to be its  mode of mediation: how it mediates, and what it is mediating.    p 
 p As my thinking about animal mediation unfolded, I began  to wonder whether we should be thinking of these animals as “vanishing  mediators.”  a href="#jameson" Fredric Jameson  a  introduced this concept in 1977 to summarize Max  Weber’s foundational analysis of bureaucracy, and in particular the role of  religious authority in the development of modern industrialization.  In this analysis, the priest in religious Europe represented and was seen to  mediate the spiritual and the administrative authority endowed by God. This  spiritual authority authorized the birth of modern bureaucratic organization  which originated in the Church but spread beyond it. As organizations further  rationalized themselves to manage the more spatially and technically complex  processes of industrialization and urbanization, modern bureaucracy abandoned  its fealty to religion and made the priest’s specific religious power  obsolete. The priest is the vanishing  mediator of bureaucratic industrialism.  p 
 p In our story, the giraffe is presented as a  ritual gesture to rulers preparing to embark on joint mercenary ventures into  the unknown, and its conveyance precipitates new ways of seeing, transporting,  owning, and connecting with other cultures. The prospect of  extinction for giraffes and other species seems to make the utility of the  vanishing mediator concept uncontroversial. But the vanishing began much  earlier than any prospect of extinction confronted the species. While giraffes  were welcomed in Europe, they did not always flourish there; the death of the  beloved giraffe after eighteen years in the Jardin du Roi was, according to painter Eugène  Delacroix, “as obscure as her entry into the world had been brilliant” ( a href="#ringmar" Ringmar 388  a ). sup  a href="#f4" 4  a   sup        Her fortune was  better than the Medici giraffe, who broke her neck almost immediately on a beam  in the special barn Lorenzo had built for her. Even before these events, there were disappearances; in order to capture  the tribute giraffe, hunters likely killed its mother ( a href="#buquet" Buquet 6  a ). To continue  the export of giraffes, Africans had to adapt or modify their practices in  order to capture and transport the young giraffe in aid of a purpose previously  unknown to them. The capacity to exchange the tribute giraffe thus involved  seizing power not only over the animal, but also over the people who shared its  habitat. This ritual performance of colonial power is vividly documented in the  1988 film “From the Pole to the Equator,” made from the  film archives of global explorer Luca Comerio (1874-1940). sup  a href="#f5" 5  a   sup   Its depiction of the performative killing of animals before Indigenous hunters  is particularly gruesome.   p 
 p The animals depicted in  this record of conquest were not exported as live  animals but hunted, killed and rendered into parts as trophies and other products,  as I have documented in  a href="#berlandbeaver" “The Work of the Beaver.”  a  Such practices entrenched the colonized African or Indigenous person as a dual figure:  both the inhabitant of a rich land capable of supplying wealth in the form of  animal bodies,  em and  em  a sacrificial figure represented metonymically  by the animal it has forfeited. Here the animal extends and symbolically  displaces the Indigenous person.   Indigenous and tribal peoples became vanishing  mediators in the dissemination of wild animals to diverse parts of the globe. The giraffe came to represent Africa without any sign of them, just as  the beaver came to represent Canada (which according to Margaret Atwood was  built on dead beavers [ a href="#atwood"  em Surfacing   em 39-40  a ], without  carrying visible evidence of the colonial and Indigenous trappers who traded  them. The origin of an exotic animal is in short both a crucial part of its  perceived meaning,  em and  em  a background rendered invisible by  the technologies and discourses through which it appears elsewhere in the  world. Colonies are often called “frontiers” for intrepid explorers, but this  process keeps colonized places and peoples back stage, as Goffman’s describes  it, and whatever happens there, as Edward Said writes in  em  a href="#said" Culture and Imperialism  a   em , remains unseen.   p 
 p Later appearances of  the giraffe have built upon these first encounters. 
  Ringmar’s reference to the heightened desire to  em see   em something marvelous forms an  important link between 15th century giraffes and the animals  circulating today in media culture. giraffes  have become more accessible by means of their presence in zoos, natural history  museums, films, and pictures. Their unique shape is almost normalized, insofar  as it is ever possible to normalize a giraffe outside of its natural habitat. In contemporary consumer culture, the animal plays an important function for  children, providing anthropomorphic figures for early object attachment while  linking them to a commodity market that is more and more child-centered. Here there need not be just one giraffe  because one toy can be replaced with another. As even children are learning, this is not true of the species as a  whole. By combining mass mediation,  childhood attachment and release, and ecological vulnerability, the giraffe’s  meanings have again changed. Now the giraffe occupies an uncertain place in the  social drive to save extinguish species that defines the so-called  Anthropocene. This transformation alters what we understand to be its mode of  mediation: how it mediates, and what it is mediating.   p 
 p This story  of the tribute giraffe is a starting point for re-thinking the animal-medium  relation, both as an historical project and as an important task for media and  animal studies. Scholars have written a great deal  about the essential yet sometimes surprising  role that communication has played in human history. But to understand the historical changes that  occurred in the 15th century, and to consider their complicated  relationship to the present, we first need to establish that the giraffe is as  much a medium of communication as the ship that carried the giraffe to a  country that had never seen one. The coming and going of ships and giraffes  together helped to alter their environments by simultaneously demonstrating  human mastery through new technology and embodying the exotic and untouched.  Only by reading the event as the imbrication of the animal and the  technological, that is to say of two different but interdependent relational processes,  can we understand its effects on how humans think and feel about animals, or  how the venture of world trade was launched that later became, through various  complex historical processes, global capitalism.  br 
    p 
 p Understanding animals as mediators  in the interplay between digital machines and reconfigured humans is different  from viewing animals as the content being transmitted in that milieu. Taking up the insight that an animal is a medium and the medium  is the message means acknowledging, as Jon Durham Peters does in his book  em The Marvelous Clouds  em , that thinking  about animals in the context of mediation is not just important for our  consideration of human animal relations; it expands our understandings of  mediation itself. If McLuhan’s insights  demonstrate “that media are not only carriers of symbolic  freight but also crafters of existence” ( a href="#peters" Peters  15  a ), this insight applies to animals  whether they occupy terrestrial, aqueous, pictorial, digital, or philosophical  environments. This does not mean that animals are always mediators, willing or  otherwise. As Peters notes, “Because media are in the middle, their definition  is a matter of position, such that the status of something as a medium can fade  once its position shifts” (29).    p 
 p That is to  say, one giraffe can be an undisturbed member of a matriarchal family, another  can be food for a human or animal predator, another a tribute sent to an  emperor, another a prisoner behind bars, and another (differently) a figure on  t shirt where before one was more likely to see eagles and elephants.  Recognizing that one entity changes through interaction with others is the  foundation of ecology. Ecology referred originally to the interactions of  species, but McLuhan applied it to the interactions of communication media.  Giraffes become mediators when they appear in the middle of things, when they  intertwine the ecology of species and the ecology of media, when endangered  species meet webcams that meet with delayed motherhood, when movement from one  territory to another shifts the geopolitics of nature and the grammar of  looking. As always, what is hidden in these arrangements colors what is  visible.   p 
 p If a medium  creates a “common situation” in human culture, as McLuhan wrote (cited   a href="#gordon" Gordon 53  a ), if a medium  doesn’t “mean” things but “does” things, and if a boat is a medium that brings  people and things together in the form of a new assemblage or new ecology, then  a post-anthropocentric interpretation of these events must  acknowledge the fact that forging good will between emperors relied as  much upon the giraffe as it did upon the boat.  Giraffes have special qualities that determine  what and how they mean for the various people who encounter them. At the same  time, layers of historic events and discourses have accumulated to shape what  any animal can mean today.    p 
 p  strong On Mediation in the Anthropocene-Capitalocene.  strong  For several  months in the spring of 2017, a global audience waited for April the giraffe  to give birth in a small zoo in upstate New York. The owner mounted a camera  and 
       transmitted a live  feed of April as she paced back and forth in her pen, separated by a fence from  Oliver, the father, to ensure the safety of the calf.   This is not the first time a zoo has sought  to capitalize from a prospective birth, but this event broke all  viewing records, creating a news sensation and a financial coup for  the zoo. According to counts  of online views, April’s prospective calf became briefly more  famous than any human baby in history, including Britain’s  toddler Prince George and Beyoncé’s unborn twins. Viewers’ comments heightened  the intensity of waiting and reinforced the sense of a significant event. They confessed that they were hooked,  they were addicted, they could not believe what they were doing, the  incredulity echoing in some strange way the marvel that must have been felt  upon seeing the first giraffe. But this time,  the description of enchantment is darkened by the frequent reference to  addiction. This addiction is voluntary and involuntary at the same time; it is experienced  as contagious, like a virus.  To explain  the apparent need of participants to confess as well as to watch, it is  essential to acknowledge the reputedly viral qualities of this event.  For such viewers, the enchantment of  encountering the animal empowers and disempowers them at the same time.   p 
 p This enchanting  contagion is both personal and public in its effects.  Thousands shared online their conviction that  they could not sleep until April had had her giraffe. All the  public feelings about the future of the giraffe as a species, the complicity of  humans in the endangerment of wild animals, the  confusion about what could be done to reverse an  unthinkably huge extinction event, the unfortunate and  unnatural everyday existence of giraffes penned in small spaces, and  the unspoken boredom or loneliness of the watchers, all these were sublimated  and poured into the need to watch April. The “event” gave  participants an opportunity to express their own sense of being captured along  with their hopes for a birth as affirmation of the vitality  of nature. This love for April was expressed not only in online  professions of insomnia, excitement, and addiction, but also in the vigorous  sales of mother-giraffe memes and April-named t-shirts and maternity clothes.    p 
 p This community  of April fans is not the elite milieu shared by the royal owners of tribute and  Medici giraffes, quite the opposite. In this affective entanglement, anyone  with a computer could look at April; anyone could express their feelings  online. The giraffe was a medium again, but this time, for millions. This giraffe is performing a very different  kind of political mediation. It provides  an appropriate case study for Foucault’s analysis of modern governmentality as  a discursive process within which the constitution and practice of human  subjectivity is formed.  Governmentality  is directed to the governance of people, rather than territories or  possessions. Through its mechanisms, humans  learn to consider and to regulate themselves as autonomous subjects posed to  take full possession of their own lives, only secondarily and more or less  instrumentally connected to others. Because  the regulative idea of self-governance has been internalized, the people that  comprise the population regulate themselves, or submit themselves to its  directives, even when the logic of individual agency collapses before them. Because  precarity has become so foundational to the neoliberal order, the practice of  self-governance is increasingly shaped around it and can potentially evolve in  various directions. The sense of being enmeshed in a state of precarity can engender  recognition of the precarity of others and a sense of “being with,”  a recognition that all life is co-existence ( a href="#nancy" Nancy  a ). strong    strong “Precariousness designates something that is existentially  shared, what is problematized here is not what makes everyone the same, but  rather what is  em shared  em  by all” ( a href="#lorey" Lorey 19  a ; emphasis in  original).  p 
 p The  vulnerability of endangered species is now the principal rationale for animal  captivity, but this context was hardly mentioned in the course of this media  event. April’s craftily produced celebrity returned sovereignty to the  individual viewers who invested love and hope in em  this  em  giraffe,  em this  em  baby,  not  em all  em  giraffes.  April’s maternal body was a mediator between  two powerful discourses, two potential world orders: neoliberalism, with its  necrophiliac emphasis on the sovereignty of individual human subjects, and  political ecology, with its life-affirming emphasis on habitats, cross-species entanglements  and collective survival. Shared motherhood aside, these logics are  irreconcilable outside the space of the zoo. The affectionate alliance between  April and her fans failed (at least in the short term) to the extent that it  confirmed and naturalized the zoo’s authority in the posited order of things. Their  feelings about risk, an essential component of this event, were discharged  through the carefully orchestrated love for an individual animal who once  again, once its calf was born, would disappear from their screens.    p 
 p April  is not mediating two emperors but rather more than a million viewers joined  together by her image on the Internet, and by the way the prospective event  appeared to confirm their passionate commitment to nature and rebirth as a  solution to precarity. Watching April did not just absorb the attention of  enchanted animal lovers, and did not just create a market for t-shirts and  memorabilia; it also served to endorse unseen intermediaries (such as the zoo  owner, who hovers on the edge of the screen) as instruments of risk management  and animal salvation. Audiences were well  prepared to engage with this animal by their already-established relationship  with animals on their toys, picture books, television and computer screens, and  phones.  As new media tools are  launched, users are enticed to interact with them by images of animals that  convey appropriate proportions of lovability, cuteness, mobility, autonomy, and  adaptability.  In this animal-tool  entanglement, the magic of one is enhanced by the magic of the other.  Just as in 1414 a giraffe appeared in advance  of new political relations, today animal images appear whenever new electronic  spaces or devices are being launched ( a href="#berlandguide" Berland, “A Visitor’s Guide”  a ). These images continuously reanimate  our associations between animal motion and the vitality of representation,  making new media programs and devices seem both exuberant and safe. The  designers creating these animal mediators have retrieved and modernized the attitudes  toward formerly unknown exotic animals that were inaugurated centuries ago:  curiosity, acquisitiveness, fascination, and a  blithe disregard for habitats and cultures.   p 
 p As  viewers watch April pace, the live feed joins the giraffe’s body to our  feelings of protectiveness and affection, and our need for diversion and  pleasure. Joined together by the optics of the zoo, we wait for her to do what  giraffes must do (and we cannot) and what ensures the viability of the zoos  that contain them, and that is to save the species. April the mother is the  captured agent of a biopolitical economy that mediates and magically resolves  the conflict we experience every day as we negotiate between money, global  geopolitics, and the conflicted impulses within our hearts. These layers of  meaning challenge our attempts to understand the April experience. What is problematic  is not love for giraffes or elephants, or April’s evocation of the past, or the  technological mediation of the encounter, but rather her triple commodification em  —   em the zoo, the advertiser, the measurement of online hits em  —   em and its carefully  successful management of our perceptions and responses, which like colonialism,  but differently, shape how she appears and what she means. April is thus an  agent of the larger governmental practice of risk management. Describing April’s mediation as risk  management is not the same as talking about the risks animals themselves face  in interactions with humans, or the way such risks are represented explicitly in  human images or texts, or the security of April herself as a widely celebrated,  privately owned commodity. April’s global profile calls for a more socially and  politically grounded theory of risk together with a revitalized theory of mediation.     p 
 p At  a general level, potential risks that this maternal star of the virtual  menagerie might assuage include: a loss of profit for zoos; more politically  volatile uses of online spaces; boredom and indifference with life online;  users’ non-participation in social media, with a negative effect on user data  monetization; spreading animal rights activism; and a volatile concern about  climate change and the devastated landscapes of the Anthropocenic environment  that catalyzes a need to act,  em somehow  em .  A million individual users sharing the April experience can ameliorate some of  these risks. But risk management in the age of climate change produces new  risks, political and economic as well as ecological, that require the  cultivation of new techniques, and we are subject to another cascading series  of techniques to follow the waves and mediations ( a href="#vanloon" cf.  Van Loon)  a  em .  em   p 
 p April reminds us how much these new  techniques of human governance concern our feelings. Just as the giraffe and the ship are  entangled in a performative event, so the co-appearance of social media devices  with their animal sidekicks plays an important role in the current “shift in  our dominant cultural logic of mediation.”  These devices do not just promise convenience and connection; they forge  affective links between themselves, their animals, and us, which promise to help  us manage our everyday lives and social interactions. Animals, of course, touched humans before now,  but how animals figure into the management of our experiences, how affect is  mediated and toward what ends, what affective entanglement means in this  context, has changed profoundly. sup  a href="#f7" 7  a   sup  Affect is a subtler concept for  talking about these media encounters than McLuhan’s speculative cybernetic  physiology, in part because McLuhan was not very attuned to affect, or to politics,  or to animals, for that matter, but also because the processes that he intuited  have become so much more explicit.  p 
 p Just as the 1414 giraffe was sent  to advocate for friendly relations between two rulers, so contemporary  celebrity animals advocate for friendly relations with the technologies and  institutions that frame their presence. Their performative place in the virtual  menagerie is part of a new “digital nature” that, as Charlie Gere observes, is  helping to naturalize institutional arrangements with complicated political  repercussions ( a href="#gere"  strong Gere 144-145  strong   a  strong )  strong . April’s glorious sweetness and fame seems to  re-enchant a disenchanted world. Like other animal figures populating the virtual menagerie, April’s  appearance has been stripped, coded and dramaturgically shaped as part of a  post-narrative aesthetic regime that stimulates the human-(quasi)animal interactions  we long for, and generates profits from them. This multi-media regime  interacts with our perceptual capacities and affective states in ways that have come  to feel natural, the way artificial plants function when you walk into a  bank.  Our “common situation”  as McLuhan termed it is a scopic regime that foregrounds   the animal’s  charismatic beauty and hides the irrelevant inescapable fate of their  natural milieux.   p 
 p As Cheryl Lousley writes:    p 
 p Distilling ecological relationships into  icons of charismatic life displaces how biodiversity is one of the most  contested areas of environmental politics where the decidedly social questions  of sovereignty, property rights, justice, livelihoods, and the capacity to  shape a future are all at stake…. The slippage from vitality to commodity  enchantment is especially hard to avoid, I argue, because capitalist economies  thrive on the appearance of flourishing objects of desire, available for  intimate appropriation. a href="#lousley"  (710)  a   p 
 p As  we set our eyes upon these objects of desire, we participate in an habitual  process of staged and regularly updated interaction that renders unseen the realities of habitat loss, declining  populations, poaching, and protective incarceration. It  is crucial to this scopic regime that we  em want  em  to look, that we adapt to new techniques and temporalities of viewing, and that  we momentarily forego political or ethical concerns about the implications of  our own desires. In  this festival of looking it is not only the animal who is sacrificed. As bodies  and images are detached whether by guns or Photoshop from the nature that makes  them animal, the force of the  imagery inveigles  us to abandon the thoughtfulness that allegedly makes us human. But images of animals awaken an enriched sense  of the vulnerability of the natural world. They  can stir deeply ethical responses to our shared creatureliness and precarious futures, as the writing of  a href="#gruen" Lori Gruen  a ,  a href="#lorey" Isabell Lorey  a , and  a href="#pick" Anat Pick  a  reminds us. The  experience of being joined to millions of viewers by a common passionate feeling for  an animal is arguably as unique and potentially transformative an experience as  seeing a live giraffe for the first time.     p 
 p align="justify"  strong Conclusion:  nature shots.   strong          McLuhan chose watchdog and  fish metaphors to describe the state of distraction humans experience when they  focus on the content of a medium rather than the medium itself. Peters rejects  this metaphorical use of the animal, for it teaches us nothing about them. “One  thing about which fish know exactly nothing is water, since they have no  anti-environment which would enable them to perceive the element they live  in,”  claimed McLuhan.  “In  fact,” Peters interjects, “fish probably know a lot about water's  temperature, clarity, currents, weather, purity, and so on, but the point  was that they did not recognize it as water” ( a href="#peters" Peters  55  a ).  And we don’t recognize the fish as medium. It does not matter whether  animals interact with us in terrestrial, aqueous,  domestic, digital, dietary, or philosophical  environments: they can be a medium as easily as the water can. Taking up the insight that “the medium  is the message” without abandoning the squids or giraffes  means acknowledging how much animals expand our understandings  of mediation itself. How and what animals mediate is  contingent on more than their biological niche, more than the  technologies within which they appear, more than the  feelings and ethics of individual people looking at them, although each of  these plays a role in the moments and outcomes of mediation. This is true of any  image. McLuhan asks us to reverse our perspective on images  so that we view ourselves from the perspective of the media, that is,  with “attentiveness to the agency of the medium in the analysis of social  change” ( a href="#mitchellhansen" Mitchell and Hansen,  em xi  em   a ).  It is  as when  a href="#mitchell" Mitchell  a  asks, in his book of the same title, “what do pictures want?” but looking through the picture  to see ourselves being made by their making. This “attentiveness to the medium”  is related to the suggestion that we look at ourselves from the point of  view of the animal, acknowledging how little we know about what they know  or feel or see but nurturing more empathic relations nonetheless. Delving into mediation challenges us to  multiply our gaze on ourselves. This is a profoundly political task of cultural  and ontological reorientation.   p 
 p What might  animals need to flourish in the environments of the future? They need us to see and feel the animals we  encounter and to clearly face and sense what seems invisible behind them. We  are as embedded in the world of natural and digital habitats as animals are,  and we need to find more complex ways to render these realities and more  sustainable modes of entanglement with them. Nurturing awareness of how animal and technological media shape our  embodied cognition of the world provides a chance to practice living with their  eyes on us, and to realize how images that produce the greatest wonder are  entangled with the politics of nature and desire in contemporary risk culture.  Tangling them differently offers a chance to focus not just on charismatic giraffes  needing to be saved, but also on the visual languages, discursive mediations  and reconfigured human-animal ecologies that can make diverse multi-species  futures viable.   p 
 p  strong  Notes  strong  strong    strong   p 
 p  a name="f1" id="f1"   a 1. A fuller discussion of this history will appear in my forthcoming book,  em Virtual Menageries  em .   p 
 p 2 a name="f2" id="f2"   a . Claire Cock-Starkey claims in  em Penguins, Pineapples and Pangolins  em  that giraffes were known in  Europe since Julius Caesar brought a giraffe to Rome as part of his menagerie   a href="#cock" (11)  a . See also  a href="#kiser" Lisa J. Kiser, “Animals in Medieval Sports, Entertainments and  Menageries;”  a  and  a href="#ringmar" Eric Ringmar, “Audience  for a Giraffe.  a ”         p 
 p  a name="f3" id="f3"   a 3. See  Martin Jay and Sumathy Ramuswami, eds.  em  a href="#jay" Empires  of Vision  a   em , especially Nicholas Thomas, “ a href="#thomas" Objects  of Knowledge: Oceanic Artifacts in European Engravings  a .”         p 
 p  a name="f4" id="f4"   a 4. There are other versions of this story  in which the giraffe’s loss is publicly mourned, however.         p 
 p  a name="f5" id="f5"   a 5. Comerio was “a pioneer of  documentary film making who traveled widely and often recorded the interaction  of people and animals; indeed, the abundant animal footage here is the  contemporary film makers’ most chilling material” ( a href="#maslin" Maslin  a ).   p 
 p  a name="f6" id="f6"   a 6. See  a href="#vandenoever" van den Oever and Winthrop-Young  a .   p 
 p  a name="f7" id="f7"   a 7 em .   em In em  em  a href="#gruen"  Entangled Empathy: An Alternative Ethic for  our Relationships with Animals,  a    em   em Lori Gruen develops an  understanding of affect that is founded in the recognition of entanglement with  animals and a call for such entanglement to be more empathic.         p 
 p  strong Works Cited  strong   br 
         “Animal Adventure Park Giraffe Cam.”  em YouTube  em .  Web. 10 Apr. 2017.  p 
 p  a name="atwood" id="atwood"   a Atwood, Margaret.  em Surfacing  em . McClelland and Stewart, 1972.         p 
 p  a name="berlandanimal" id="berlandanimal"   a Berland,  Jody. “Animal And as Medium: Symbolic Work in Communicative Regimes.”  em The  Global South  em  3.1 (2009): 42–65.   p 
 p  a name="berlandguide" id="berlandguide"   a _____. “A Visitor’s Guide to the Virtual Menagerie.” em  Antennae  em   30 ( em Themed issue: Virtual Animals  em ) (Winter 2014): 54-71.  p 
 p  a name="berlandbeaver" id="berlandbeaver"   a _____.“The  Work of the Beaver.”  em Material Cultures in Canada  em .  Wilfrid  Laurier UP, 2015. 25–45.    p 
 p  a name="buquet" id="buquet"   a Buquet,  Thierry.    em La bête captive au Moyen Âge et à l’époque moderne  em .  em    em C. Beck &amp; F. Guizard, eds. Encrage, 2012. 65-90.   p 
 p  a name="chakrabarty" id="chakrabarty"   a Chakrabarty,  Dipesh. “The Climate of History: Four  Theses.”  em Critical Inquiry  em   35.2 (Winter 2009): 197-222.   p 
 p  a name="cock" id="cock"   a Cock-Starkey, Claire.   em Penguins, Pineapples and Pangolins  em . British Library Publishing,  2016.         p 
 p  a name="gere" id="gere"   a Gere, Charlie.  em Digital Culture  em . 2nd Revised  Edition.  Reaktion Books, 2008.  p 
 p  a name="gianikian" id="gianikian"   a Gianikian, Yervant, and Angela Ricci Lucchi.  em From  the Pole to the Equator  em . Museum of Modern Art, 1988. Film.  p 
 p  a name="goffman" id="goffman"   a Goffman, Irving.  em The Presentation of the Self in  Everyday Life  em .  Anchor, 1959.         p 
 p  a name="gordon" id="gordon"   a Gordon,  W. Terrence.  em McLuhan: A Guide for the Perplexed  em .  Bloomsbury  Academic, 2010.   p 
 p  a name="gruen" id="gruen"   a Gruen, Lori.  em Entangled Empathy: An Alternative Ethic for  our Relationships with Animals.  em   Lantern Books, 2014.         p 
 p  a name="kiser" id="kiser"   a Kiser, Lisa J. “Animals in Medieval  Sports, Entertainments and Menageries.” em  A Cultural  History of Animals in the Medieval Age.   em Brigitte Resl, ed.  Oxford UP, 2007. 103-126.  p 
 p  a name="jameson" id="jameson"   a Jameson, Fredric. “The Vanishing Mediator: Narrative Structure in Max  Weber.”  em New German  Critique   em  1 (Winter, 1973): 52-8.   p 
 p  a name="jay" id="jay"   a Jay, Martin, and Sumathy Ramuswami, eds.  em Empires of Vision.   em Duke  P, 2014.   p 
 p  a name="liu" id="liu"   a Liu, Alan. “Imagining the New Media Encounter.” em A  Companion to Digital Literary Studies  em . Ray Siemens and Susan  Schreibman, eds. Wiley-Blackwell strong ,   strong 2013. 3–26.   p 
 p  a name="lorey" id="lorey"   a Lorey, Isabell.  em State of Insecurity: Government of the  Precarious  em . Verso, 2015.   p 
 p  a name="lousley" id="lousley"   a Lousley,  Cheryl. “Charismatic Life: Spectacular Biodiversity and Biophilic Life  Writing.”  em Environmental Communication   em 10.6 (2016): 704-718.   p 
 p  a name="maslin" id="maslin"   a Maslin, Janet. “From the Pole to the Equator.”  em New York Times  em , April 6, 1988.         p 
 p  a name="mcluhan" id="mcluhan"   a McLuhan, Marshall. “New Media as Political Forms.”  em Explorations  em  3 (1955): 115-121.  p 
 p  a name="mcluhanlapham" id="mcluhanlapham"   a McLuhan, Marshall, and Lewis H. Lapham.  em Understanding  Media: The Extensions of Man  em . The MIT Press, 1994.         p 
 p  a name="mitchell" id="mitchell"   a Mitchell, W. J. T.  em What Do Pictures Want? The Lives and Loves of Images  em . U Chicago P, 2004.  p 
 p  a name="mitchellhansen" id="mitchellhansen"   a Mitchell,  W. J. T., and Mark B. N. Hansen, eds.  em Critical Terms for Media Studies  em . U of Chicago  P, 2010.   p 
 p  a name="moore" id="moore"   a Moore,  Jason W. “The Rise of Cheap Nature.” em  Anthropocene  or Capitalocene? Nature, History and the Crisis of Capitalism  em . Jason W. Moore, ed. PM  Press, 2016. 78-115.   p 
 p  a name="nancy" id="nancy"   a Nancy, Jean-Luc.   em Being Singular Plural  em  em .  em    Trans. Robert Richardson and Anne O’Byrne. Stanford  UP, 2000.   p 
 p  a name="peters" id="peters"   a Peters,  John Durham.  em The Marvelous Clouds: Toward a Philosophy of Elemental Media  em .  U of Chicago P, 2015.   p 
 p  a name="pick" id="pick"   a Pick, Anat.  em Creaturely Poetics: Animality  and Vulnerability in Literature and Film  em . Columbia UP, 2011.   p 
 p  a name="ringmar" id="ringmar"   a Ringmar, Erik. “Audience for a Giraffe: European  Expansionism and the Quest for the Exotic.”  em Journal of World History  em  17.4 (2006): 375-397.  p 
 p  a name="said" id="said"   a Said, Edward W.  em Culture and Imperialism  em . Vintage, 1993.         p 
 p  a name="shukin" id="shukin"   a Shukin, Nicole.  em Animal Capital  em : em  Rendering Life in Biopolitical Times  em . U Minnesota P, 2009.  p 
 p  a name="thomas" id="thomas"   a Thomas, Nicholas. “Objects of Knowledge: Oceanic  Artifacts in European Engravings,” in a href="#jay"  Jay  and Ramuswami.   a 141-158.  p 
 p  a name="vandenoever" id="vandenoever"   a van den Oever, Annie, and Geoffrey  Winthrop-Young. “Rethinking the Materiality of Technical Media: Friedrich  Kittler, Enfant Terrible with a Rejuvenating Effect on Parental Discipline em  —   em A  Dialogue.” em Techné Technology: Researching Cinema and Media Technologies,  Their Development, Use and Impact  em .     Annie van den Oever, ed. Amsterdam UP, 2014. 219-239.  p 
 p  a name="vanloon" id="vanloon"   a van Loon, Joost.  em Risk and Technological  Culture: Towards a Sociology of Virulence  em . Routledge, 2002.   p 
 p  a name="williams" id="williams"   a Williams,  Edgar.  em Giraffe  em . Reaktion Books, 2011.   p 
 p  a name="zielinski" id="zielinski"   a Zielinski, Sarah.  a href="https:  www.sciencenews.org blog wild-things giraffes-sailed-medieval-china" “The Giraffes that  Sailed to Medieval China.”  a   em Science News: Magazine  of the Society for Science &amp; the Public  em . October 1,  2013. Web. 11 April 2017.       p 
