 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-2@published" data-word-count="124" When the Copenhagen Zoo on Sunday  a href="http:  nymag.com daily intelligencer 2014 02 giraffe-killed-for-having-unremarkable-genes.html" killed a giraffe  a  whose genes it couldn’t use in its breeding program, it fed the carcass to the zoo’s lions. While the general public was  a href="http:  www.theguardian.com world 2014 feb 09 danish-zoo-outrage-giraffe-marius" appalled at the zoo’s decision  a , the carcass did provide those carnivores with some of the meat they would have consumed in the wild, still attached to the body of their natural prey.  a href="http:  www.nytimes.com 2014 02 10 world europe anger-erupts-over-danish-zoos-decision-to-put-down-a-giraffe.html?ref=world" The New York  em Times  em  pointed out  a  that “t span he species is not endangered, but it faces threats from habitat loss and hunting.” After that, it was hard not to wonder: If people hunt giraffes, they must eat them. And if so, what does the meat taste like? The descriptions we found, while intriguing, still did not make us want to try it. br   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-3@published" data-word-count="58" While not all giraffe hunting is illegal — people  a href="http:  www.dailymail.co.uk news article-2089806 The-giraffe-hunters-pay-10-000-shoot-gentle-giants-guns-bows-sport.html" pay handsomely for safaris  a  on private land in South Africa, Namibia, and Zimbabwe — many of those who harvest these long-necked herbivores are poachers trafficking in bushmeat. That  a href="http:  www.fws.gov international wildlife-without-borders global-program bushmeat.html" catch-all term  a  refers to meat taken from animals in the African wild, usually illegally and with no regard for the health of animal span class="widont"    span populations.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-5@published" data-word-count="65" As one game warden in Kenya  a href="http:  www.africareview.com Special-Reports - 979182 1148054 - x6cqvxz - index.html" told the Africa Review  a  news site, giraffes “are now easy targets for poachers because the animals have a lot of meat on their bones. Meat [from] one giraffe can be equal to meat that one gets from four elands [ a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Common_eland" antelopes  a ].” The meat is frequently sold  a href="http:  bushmeateastafrica.wildlifedirect.org 2009 05 08 butchery-of-africa%E2%80%99s-wildlife-heritage " extremely cheaply  a , and the often-minimal fines for trading in it can be frustratingly ineffective at preventing span class="widont"    span it.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-6@published" data-word-count="69" But the meat can be obtained legitimately, both in Africa and apparently here in the United States, sometimes appearing on restaurant menus. A restaurant called Panache opened in Killington, Vermont, around 1994 or so, offering a menu of exotic meats that included giraffe.  a href="http:  www.bostonphoenix.com archive features 97 12 11 EXOTIC_MEAT.html" According to the Boston  em Phoenix  em   a  in 1997, that offering consisted of “ span a red meat that was served   span  i very   i  span rare, which made it extra tender. It had a melt-in-your-mouth span class="widont"    span quality.”  span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-7@published" data-word-count="40"  span   span One Montana-based business called Giraffine claims to sell live animals as well as meat, which  a href="http:  giraffine.ydafs.com faqs " its website describes  a  as “intensely flavored lean meat; It tastes very similar to horse meat but more tender.” A call to Giraffine was not immediately span class="widont"    span returned.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-9@published" data-word-count="61" The  a href="http:  www.bootsnall.com articles 12-11 seeing-and-eating-exotic-animals-in-south-africa.html" travel site Bootsnall  a  spoke with the owner of a Johannesburg restaurant called  a href="http:  www.recreationafrica.co.za carnivore " Carnivore  a , which sells a variety of local exotic meats. The restaurant says it gets its giraffe meat through registered culling programs. Owner Allen Dixon told Bootsnall’s  span Mattie John Bamman, “g span iraffe meat has a great deal of sinew … It can be quite tough and chewy, however, it is very span class="widont"    span flavorful.”   span   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-10@published" data-word-count="24"  span  span Apparently results vary with this particular meat, but nothing we’ve read so far makes it sound particularly enticing.  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk news worldnews middleeast israel 2084281 Giraffe-is-kosher-Israeli-vets-have-ruled.html" It is kosher  a , for what it’s span class="widont"    span worth.  span   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-12@published" data-word-count="70" Still, the meat has its evangelists, such as British chef Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, who  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk foodanddrink 4287891 Chef-Hugh-Fearnley-Whittingstall-under-fire-for-eating-giraffe.html" told an interviewer  a  in 2009, “ span I’ve tasted giraffe and crocodile and I can highly recommend them.” But Fearnley-Whittingstall also got a lot of criticism for doing so. “The last thing wildlife needs is Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall encouraging diners without principles to treat the rest of the world as a larder,” said conservationist Justin Kerswell, with the  span class="caps" U.K.  span  group  a href="http:  www.viva.org.uk what-we-do" Viva!  a   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-13@published" data-word-count="36"  span Seeing as how the meat has so little to recommend it aside from Fearnley-Whittingstall’s five-year-old comment and carries such a high risk of being harvested unethically, it’s probably best to leave giraffe-eating to lions in the span class="widont"    span wild.  span   p 
 p Scandal-ridden Netanyahu is dialing up the nativism  p 
 p How the Kentucky heartbeat bill targeting abortion could have made one family’s heartbreaking tragedy even more horrifying  p 
 p This was the most devastating week of my life. We had our 20 week ultrasound and discovered that our baby’s brain had not developed, and that it would likely die before it was born and would only live a few hours if carried to term. We terminated the pregnancy. …  p 
 p One horrifying wrinkle in this world-shattering situation was that SB 9, the fetal heartbeat bill, was poised to pass on Thursday. If it had, we wouldn’t have been able to have the procedure at all. While our daughter had no brain and a malformed spine, she had a heartbeat.  p 
 p There is so much to this story that infuriates me, and we are in so much grief, but it is nice to know in the midst of this that we are loved by so many. We are trying to focus on the many things that are good about our lives. Be good to each other.  p 
 p One last thing: I’ve said it reflexively many times, but the reality of “trust women and their doctors” doesn’t truly sink in until you are looking at the malformed brain of the child you conceived via fertility treatments and hear “now we need to talk about some legal questions”  p 
 p Where the presses keep stopping, for good  p 
 p Last September, Waynesville[, Missouri] became a statistic. With the shutdown of its newspaper, the Daily Guide, this town of 5,200 people in central Missouri’s Ozark hills joined more than 1,400 other cities and towns across the U.S. to lose a newspaper over the past 15 years, according to an Associated Press analysis of data compiled by the University of North Carolina. …  p 
 p The Daily Guide, which traces to 1962, was a family owned paper into the 1980s before it was sold to a series of corporate owners that culminated with GateHouse Media Inc., the nation’s largest newspaper company. Five of the 10 largest media companies are owned by hedge funds or other investors with several unrelated holdings, and GateHouse is among them. …  p 
 p Like many communities, Waynesville is struggling with a drug problem. The nearby interstate is an easy supply line for opioids and meth, police say. The four murders in Waynesville last year were the most in memory, and all were drug-related. For painful, personal reasons, Pulaski County Sheriff Jimmy Bench wishes the Daily Guide was there to report on the December death of his 31-year-old son, Ryan, due to a heroin overdose. It would have been better than dealing with whispers and Twitter. … Without a newspaper’s reporting, Police Chief Dan Cordova said many in the community are unaware of the extent of the problem.   p 
 p Cindy Yang also appears to have sold access to 2017 Trump fundraiser in New York  p 
 p A Chinese-American massage-parlor entrepreneur arranged for a group of Chinese business executives to attend a paid fundraiser for President Donald Trump in New York City at the end of 2017, according to a source who was present at the event. …  p 
 p Foreign visitors  a href="https:  www.fec.gov updates foreign-nationals " may attend fundraisers  a  as long as they don’t pay their own entry. But only citizens and permanent residents are allowed to donate to U.S. political campaigns. It would be illegal for foreign nationals to reimburse a U.S. citizen for paying their way into a fundraiser. Special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation has been examining whether money from abroad influenced the 2016 election. There is no evidence that Yang or her businesses are part of that investigation. …  p 
 p Reports in Chinese-language media said nearly 100 Chinese people attended the New York fundraiser in December 2017, out of roughly 400 total guests. The event was hosted by the Republican National Committee. Officials at Trump Victory and the RNC did not immediately respond to requests for comment Saturday. … The source who attended the party said the president joked that the Chinese guests got all the good seats and would be omnipresent at future events if his American friends in real estate didn’t start donating more.   p 
 p President Trump has spent more than 29 percent of his presidency at Trump-branded properties  p 
 p Ethiopia Airlines crash leaves no survivors. 157 dead, including 8 Americans  p 
 p An Ethiopian Airlines jet has crashed shortly after take-off from Addis Ababa, killing all on board. The airline said 149 passengers and eight crew members were on flight ET302 from the Ethiopian capital to Nairobi in Kenya. …  p 
 p The crash happened at 08.44 local time, six minutes after the months-old Boeing 737 Max-8 took off. It is not yet clear what caused the accident. However, the pilot had reported difficulties and had asked to return to Addis Ababa, the airline said. …  p 
 p Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam told a press conference that passengers from more than 30 countries were on board the flight. He said they included 32 Kenyans, 18 Canadians, nine Ethiopians, eight Italians, eight Chinese, eight Americans, seven Britons, seven French citizens, six Egyptians, five Dutch citizens, four Indians and four people from Slovakia. Three Austrians, three Swedes, three Russians, two Moroccans, two Spaniards, two Poles and two Israelis were also on the flight. There was also one passenger each from Belgium, Indonesia, Somalia, Norway, Serbia, Togo, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sudan, Uganda and Yemen.  p 
 p Beto wouldn’t acknowledge if he was running at  em Running With Beto  em  and now even Politico is getting annoyed  p 
 p With a thick [SXSW] crowd waiting in front of Austin’s Paramount Theatre, O’Rourke slipped into the premiere of his own documentary through an alley in the back. He waited for the lights to dim before joining the audience. And 10 days after declaring that he and his wife, Amy, had decided “how we can best serve our country,” he once again refused to discuss his 2020 plans.  p 
 p “I want to make sure I do it the right way and I tell everyone at the same time, so I’ll be doing that,” he told reporters when asked by POLITICO about the delay. “I’ve got to be on the timeline that works for my family and for the country.”  p 
 p What is unusual is not that O’Rourke hasn’t said yet if he is running — Joe Biden hasn’t, either. It’s that O’Rourke, unlike any other potential presidential candidate, confirmed more than a week ago that he made his decision. He just won’t say what it is. Instead, the politician who sowed his entire persona on a thread of authenticity — crisscrossing Texas while eschewing pollsters and political consultants in his Senate run last year — is now manufacturing suspense.  p 
 p Americans’ visa-free travel to Europe will come to an end in 2021  p 
 p The EU  a href="http:  europa.eu rapid press-release_IP-18-4367_en.htm" announced last year  a  it was creating a European Travel Information and Authorization System, or ETIAS, that will require “pre-travel screening for security and migration risks of travellers benefiting from visa-free access to the Schengen area.” …  p 
 p Currently, US citizens can travel to Europe for up to 90 days without any sort of travel authorization. ETIAS will change that. Visa-free travelers, including US citizens, will need to request ETIAS authorization before visiting the Schengen Area. They can complete an application and pay a service fee of 7 euros (about $8) online. The authorization is valid for three years.  p 
 p The United States won’t be the only country affected by the changes. From 2021, citizens from 60 countries will be required to apply for the ETIAS before entering the Schengen Area. Brazil, Canada, New Zealand, Singapore, Israel and Mauritius are among those countries.  p 
 p Unless your home has jungle-like vegetation, your house plants aren’t improving the air  p 
 p For several years, research really did suggest that houseplants might cleanse the air of certain pollutants. But now most scientists say that’s not right.  p 
 p “It’s such an alluring and enticing idea,”  a href="https:  www.pdx.edu mme elliott-gall" Elliot Gall  a , a Portland State University professor, told me. “But the scientific literature shows that indoor houseplants—as would be typically implemented in a person’s home—do very little to clean the air.”  p 
 p “My view is even harsher than that,”  a href="https:  drexel.edu engineering about faculty-staff W waring-michael " Michael Waring  a , an engineering professor at Drexel University, told me. “I do not think that houseplants clean the air.”  p 
 p “A resounding ‘no,’” agreed  a href="https:  www.pdx.edu omc news richard-l-corsi-named-new-dean-psu%E2%80%99s-maseeh-college-engineering-and-computer-science" Richard Corsi  a , a longtime air-pollution researcher, in an email. Houseplants do not clean the air “any more than an old pair of socks or baseball cap that I would hang on the wall.”  p 
 p Why the confusion? Big Succulent isn’t lying to you, though at this point the houseplant industry is cherry-picking data. But for plants to actually improve the air, even in a compact apartment, you’d need a concentration of houseplants that only the most dedicated plant lovers can actually achieve.  p 
 p They are still awesome though  p 
 p FBI counterterrorism data highlights both the absurdity of immigrant scaremongering, as well as how little we are ever told about counterterrorism  p 
 p Most people arrested as the result of FBI terrorism investigations are charged with non-terrorism offenses, and more domestic terror suspects were arrested last year than those allegedly inspired by international terror groups, according to internal FBI figures reviewed by The Washington Post.  p 
 p As government officials and activists debate the best way to pursue violent extremists, the figures show how much of counterterrorism work goes undeclared and unnoticed.  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com world national-security fbi-investigating-1000-white-supremacist-domestic-terrorism-cases 2017 09 27 95abff24-a38b-11e7-ade1-76d061d56efa_story.html?utm_term=.9d1c5cb51f3c" Thousands are investigated  a  each year. Hundreds are charged with crimes. But the public and the media see only dozens.  p 
 p The debate centers on whether federal law and law enforcement are too focused on Islamic terrorism and not paying enough attention to  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com national in-the-united-states-right-wing-violence-is-on-the-rise 2018 11 25 61f7f24a-deb4-11e8-85df-7a6b4d25cfbb_story.html?utm_term=.07c42ffa9e0b" the rise in far right-wing extremism  a . In fact, according to the data, more domestic terrorist targets are being charged, and in both categories, law enforcement often leverage simpler crimes, such as violations of gun or drug laws, to prevent violence.  p 
 p The man who made Trump ultra-famous, twice, might run for office himself — but not yet  p 
 p [Jeff] Zucker on running for office: “I’ve harbored these ambitions for 30 years. I’m still interested in the idea. At some point, I’d probably like to really give that a shot. It’s not imminent. It’s not happening this year. It’s not happening next year.”  p 
 p Brexit was an outside job  p 
 p The truth is that Britain has become a place where untransparent money, from unknown sources, is widely accepted with a complacent shrug. London is the world capital of offshore banking, home to the most sophisticated accountants and lawyers; a third of British billionaires have availed themselves of those services and moved their money beyond the reach of the state, according to a  a href="https:  www.thetimes.co.uk article a-third-of-british-billionaires-have-moved-to-a-tax-haven-zk6q53rtd" report  a  Thursday in the Times of London. Many of them nevertheless continue to make donations to British political parties, and many continue to lobby to keep the rules that favor them exactly as they are.  p 
 p As a result, the British political class does not have the willpower to force them to bring their money home. The British state does not have the legal tools to force Banks to show where his cash came from. The British media continue to investigate, but if anyone were trying to influence the British referendum campaign from outside the country — beyond the social media manipulation that is now de rigueur in almost every election — it’s possible that we’ll never know.  p 
 p If Brexit was the creation, in part, of this new world of offshore money and political influence campaigns, Brexit may well ensure that it continues unrestricted. The E.U. is probably the only power in Europe — maybe even the only one in the world — with the regulatory strength to change the culture of tax avoidance. And since 2016, it  a href="https:  www.theguardian.com business 2017 jun 18 european-commission-to-crackdown-on-offshore-tax-avoidance" has been slowly enacting rules  a  designed to do exactly that. Britain, once it leaves the E.U., may well be exempt.  p 
 p Federal judge says Trump administration responsible for thousands of additional separated migrant children, may have to reunite them  p 
 p A federal judge on Friday ruled that the Trump administration is responsible for migrant children separated even before it instituted a “zero tolerance” policy.  p 
 p The ruling followed a report from the Department of Health and Human Services Inspector General that found that “potentially thousands” of children were separated from their parents between June 2017 and May 2018, when the Trump administration began prosecuting under the zero tolerance policy all those crossing the border illegally and separating parents from their children in the process.  p 
 p The plaintiffs in the case, led by the American Civil Liberties Union, had argued that these children should be included in the class action lawsuit so that they, like the 2,800 children separated under zero tolerance, could potentially be reunified with their parents. … For now, the children are only included in the lawsuit, and [Judge Dana] Sabraw has not ordered that the government reunite them with their families.  p 
 p Florida woman who owned spa where Robert Craft was arrested for soliciting Prostitution marketed Trump access to Chinese businessmen  p 
 p Cindy Yang, the founder of the Florida spa where Bob Kraft was busted for soliciting prostitution, wasn’t just posing for selfies with members of Trumpworld. She’s been selling Chinese business executives access to Trump and his family at Mar-a-Lago   p 
 p Yang’s company is promoting an upcoming event at Mar-a-Lago featuring Trump’s sister, Elizabeth Trump Grau. The co. bills it as “a once-in-a-lifetime publicity opportunity” where “Chinese elites” will have the chance to mingle with Trump Grau and members of Congress  p 
 p  a href="https:  twitter.com DanielSchulman status 1104350788346933248" [Here is a photo of Eric Trump and] Huachu Tang  a , owner of a Chinese electric car co., who flew 17 hours to attend the New Year’s celebration at Mar-a-Lago in hopes of promoting his company.  p 
 p Executives like Tang have every reason to believe that spending big money to attend events at Mar-a-Lago—money that is flowing into the president’s pockets—could improve their business prospects. After all, as  a href="https:  twitter.com ProPublica" Pro Publica  a  reported this week, [ a href="https:  www.propublica.org article trump-mar-a-lago-buddy-wrote-policy-pitch-the-president-sent-it-to-va-chief" sometimes U.S. agency heads end up getting forwarded policy proposals made by guests  a ] after encounters with Trump at Mar-a-Lago  p 
 p Trump was signing the  em cover  em  of Bibles earlier today  p 
 p The long half-life of an app  p 
 p Ask someone about Foursquare and they’ll probably think of the once-hyped social media company, known for gamifying mobile check-ins and giving recommendations. But the Foursquare of today is a location-data giant. During an  a href="https:  www.cnbc.com 2018 11 02 foursquare-ceo-only-google-and-facebook-rival-us-on-data-precision.html" interview with NBC  a  in November, the company’s CEO, Jeff Glueck, said that only Facebook and Google rival Foursquare in terms of location-data precision.  p 
 p You might think you don’t use Foursquare, but chances are you do. Foursquare’s technology powers the geofilters in Snapchat, tagged tweets on Twitter; it’s in Uber, Apple Maps, Airbnb, WeChat, and Samsung phones, to name a few. (Condé Nast Traveler, owned by the same parent company as WIRED, relies on Foursquare data.)  p 
 p In 2014, Foursquare launched Pilgrim, a piece of code that passively tracks where your phone goes using Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, GPS, and GSM to identify the coffee shop or park or Thai restaurant you’re visiting, then feeds that data to its partner apps to send you, say, an offer for a 10 percent off coupon if you leave a review for the restaurant. Today, Pilgrim and the company’s Places API are an integral part of tens of thousands of apps, sites, and interfaces. As Foursquare’s website says, “If it tells you where, it’s probably built on Foursquare.”  p 
 p What do you call an anti-climate conference?  p 
 p Things have gotten much worse for Jussie Smolett  p 
 p A Chicago grand jury on Friday indicted  em Empire  em  actor Jussie Smollett on 16 felony counts for allegedly lying to police about a supposed hate crime attack, according to multiple reports.   p 
 p Smollett was charged last month with felony disorderly conduct and released on $100,000 bail.  p 
 p The actor reported in late January he had been viciously attacked by two men who yelled pro-Donald Trump remarks mixed with racist and homophobic language.  p 
 p Chicago detectives later determined that the  em Empire  em  actor allegedly set up the highly publicized attack to further his career.  p 
 p Is the Brooklyn Bridge still for sale?  p 
 p Tornado relief followed by some light sacrilege  p 
 p class="account-cta-container" 
           span Already a subscriber?  span 
           span  a class="content-cliff-login" title="login" Log in  a  or  a href="https:  my.nymag.com account " link your magazine subscription  a   span 
          p 
