 p Which animal is mostly yellow, with four legs and a very l-o-n-g neck? Yes, it’s a giraffe! But did you know that giraffes are actually in danger of extinction?  p 
 p Over the past thirty years, around a third of Africa’s beautiful giraffe population have died out. But why is this? Well, some African animals such as elephants, rhinos, and lions receive better protection because the world knows that illegal hunters kill them for their horns or for a trophy. But the biggest challenges facing many giraffes are that human development and civil wars in parts of Africa are causing them to lose the wide, open spaces they call home, or else be killed for their meat.  p 
 p  strong Success in South Africa  strong   p 
 p Many of Africa’s poorer or warring countries have little money to protect giraffes, as it’s spent elsewhere or taken by criminals. But in the country of South Africa, giraffe numbers are actually rising!  p 
 p Many visitors travel to South Africa to see wild animals in their own environments. This brings in a lot of money to the country, so the government makes sure giraffes and other animals have the space they need and employ enough park rangers to protect them from hunters. This type of  em conservation  em  plan could work well in other African countries, and if the worldwide community could agree that giraffes  em are  em  in danger of becoming extinct, money would be spent to protect them and their habitats.    p 
 p  strong What can I do?  strong   p 
 p Learn about giraffes and then tell everyone all about them! In this way, more and more people will want to help them. You could join an organization such as the WWF (World Wildlife Fund) who work to protect wildlife, or make a choice to support your local wildlife by visiting a nature reserve or even make your garden a nice, safe place for insects and birds!   p 
 p  span style='font-size:11.0pt;line-height:107%;
font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri;mso-fareast-theme-font:
minor-latin;color:#7F7F7F;mso-themecolor:text1;mso-themetint:128;mso-ansi-language:
EN-US;mso-fareast-language:EN-US;mso-bidi-language:AR-SA' This article and its images were first published on   span  span style='font-size:11.0pt;line-height:
107%;font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;
mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri;mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-hansi-theme-font:
minor-latin;mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman";mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;
mso-ansi-language:EN-US;mso-fareast-language:EN-US;mso-bidi-language:AR-SA'  a href="http:  www.WhyzzExplorer.com"  span style='font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;
color:#7F7F7F;mso-themecolor:text1;mso-themetint:128' www.WhyzzExplorer.com  span   a   span  span style='font-size:11.0pt;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;
mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri;mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin;color:#7F7F7F;
mso-themecolor:text1;mso-themetint:128;mso-ansi-language:EN-US;mso-fareast-language:
EN-US;mso-bidi-language:AR-SA' , a website that helps parents to explain the world to kids, to inspire them to make a difference and to raise true global citizens.   span   p 
 p 
 script data-config="  config.playwire.com 1022050 playlists v2 4618 zeus.json" src="  cdn.playwire.com bolt js zeus embed.js"   script   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.familyeducation.com 20-baby-names-with-even-better-nicknames" 20 Baby Names With Even Better Nicknames  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.familyeducation.com pregnancy what-its-really-like-to-use-a-pregnancy-surrogate" What It's Really Like to Use a Pregnancy Surrogate  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.familyeducation.com the-rise-of-raindrop-baby-names" Raindrop Baby Names Are About To Blow Up, Here Are Our Top Choices  a   p 
 p For more parenting tips and tricks, find us on Pinterest:
  p 
 p 
  p 
 p Are you a writer, expert, or influencer? Get in touch!  p 
 p  a href=" lets-collaborate" class="button button-effect button-effect-reverse" style="border: 2px solid #fff;"  em Go  em  span Go  span   a 
  p 
 p Get tips for all grades and subjects  p 
 p          a href=" school-and-learning helping-homework" class="button button-effect button-effect-reverse"  em GO  em  span GO  span   a 
        p 
 p style="margin-bottom:0;" Find engaging printables for all ages and subjects!  p 
 p          a href=" entertainment-and-activities skill-builders-printables"  button class="btn" MORE PRINTABLES i class="fa fa-chevron-right"   i   button   a 
        p 
