 p  World Giraffe Day is an exciting annual event initiated by GCF to celebrate the longest-necked animal on the longest day or night (depending on which hemisphere you live!) of the year – 21 June – every year!  p 
 p Not only is it a worldwide celebration of these amazing and much-loved animals, but an annual event to raise support, create awareness and shed light on the challenges giraffe face in the wild. By supporting World Giraffe Day (WGD), you directly help save giraffe in Africa. With only 100,000 giraffe remaining in the wild, the time is right to act NOW!  p 
 p Zoos, schools, NGOs, governments, institutions, companies and conservation organisations around the world are hosting events on or around 21 June every year to raise awareness and support for giraffe in the wild.   a href="#Supporters" Check out who else is celebrating  a .  p 
 p  a class="nectar-button medium accent-color regular-button" href="https:  giraffeconservation.org donate " data-color-override="false" data-hover-color-override="false" data-hover-text-color-override="#fff"  span DONATE TO HELP US SAVE GIRAFFE RIGHT NOW  span   a   a class="nectar-button medium extra-color-1 regular-button" href="https:  giraffeconservation.org adopt-a-giraffe " data-color-override="false" data-hover-color-override="false" data-hover-text-color-override="#fff"  span Learn how you can adopt a Giraffe  span   a   p 
 p The Giraffe Conservation Foundation is excited to announce that World Giraffe Day – 21 June 2018 – is dedicated to  strong Operation Twiga III  strong , the third dedicated giraffe conservation translocation of Nubian (formerly Rothschild’s) giraffe in Uganda.  p 
 p Giraffe are listed as  em  strong Vulnerable  strong  to extinction  em  on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Giraffe numbers in Africa have plummeted by a staggering 40% over the last 30 years. We estimate today that there are fewer than 100,000 giraffe remaining in all of Africa.  p 
 p Based on our work with partners, we now believe that there are four different species of giraffe. With just over 5,000 individuals, the Northern giraffe is the least populous of these. Nubian (formerly Rothschild’s) giraffe, a subspecies of Northern giraffe, are estimated at only 2,645 individuals in the wild – most of these in Uganda.  p 
 p  Nubian giraffe are under threat and you can help us make a difference.  p 
 p  Just like  a href="https:  giraffeconservation.org 2016 03 15 operation-twiga-in-action " Operation Twiga I  a  &amp;  a href="https:  giraffeconservation.org 2017 09 01 operation-twiga-2 " II  a  (“twiga” is Swahili for giraffe), which saw the giraffe cross the Nile River, GCF with partners are supporting the  a href="http:  www.ugandawildlife.org " Uganda Wildlife Authority  a  to plan another conservation translocation of Nubian giraffe in the country.  p 
 p Uganda hosts four populations of Nubian giraffe in three national parks: Murchison Falls (north and south of the Nile River), Kidepo Valley and Lake Mburo. Boosting existing populations is vital for securing their future in the country. With only 35 giraffe in Kidepo Valley National Park, this population needs an added boost to thrive. Operation Twiga III will add more giraffe to this important population, which has recovered from only three individuals in the 1990s.  strong Help us save giraffe in Uganda!  strong   p 
 p Your donation will not only support Operation Twiga III, but with an ambitious goal of  strong US$250,000  strong , we want to raise enough money to continue all giraffe conservation programmes in Uganda for the next few years.  p 
 p Our partner  a href="http:  www.cmzoo.org " Cheyenne Mountain Zoo  a  has already committed US$75,000 for Operation Twiga III.  strong Who is next to support Operation Twiga III and World Giraffe Day 2018?  strong   p 
 p You can read more about this important programme  a href="https:  giraffeconservation.org programmes uganda-programme " here  a .  p 
 p  How would your support help? Here are some examples:  p 
 p In the past, zoos and other partners from around the world have enjoyed great success in raising awareness and funds on World Giraffe Day. This year, you can support Operation Twiga III with a tax-deductible donation.  p 
 p  Please dig deep and help us to secure a future for all giraffe in Africa.  p 
 p    p 
 p style="text-align: center;" World Giraffe Day is an initiative of  GCF and the celebrations are joined by zoos, schools, NGOs, governments, institutions and conservation organisations around the world join by hosting events on 21 June to raise awareness and support for giraffe in the wild. Check out who is celebrating and supporting World Giraffe Day.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  em Are you also celebrating WGD with us? If your logo is still missing, simply  a href="https:  giraffeconservation.org contact " get in touch  a .   em   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" Check out our amazing range of  a href="https:  animaliacollective.com collection charity giraffe-conservation-foundation " WGD and GCF merchandise  a . Every purchase directly supports giraffe conservation in Africa.  p 
 p © 2019 Giraffe Conservation Foundation.
All rights reserved unless otherwise stated. br Website design &amp; hosting by  a href="https:  kevinhalfhill.com " target="_blank" Kevin Halfhill  a .  p 
