 p class="back"  i class="fa fa-arrow-left" aria-hidden="true"   i 
											mammals  p 
 p The capybara is found in Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, the Guyanas, Peru and south through Brazil, Paraguay, northeast Argentina, &amp; Uruguay.  p 
 p Because this rodent is semi-aquatic, it can be found in dense vegetation surrounding lakes, rivers, swamps, marshes and ponds. They are normally crepuscular meaning they are active at twilight: early in the morning and at sunset.  p 
 p Capybaras are the largest rodents in the world.  They have heavy, barrel-shaped bodies with short heads.  They resemble guinea pigs.  Their fur is reddish brown on their upper parts and yellowish brown underneath. They average around 100 pounds and may grow large as two feet tall and four feet long.  p 
 p Capybaras are excellent swimmers, hence their nickname, water pig. They have partially webbed feet, their front legs have four toes and their hind legs have three. They may remain underwater for as long as five minutes.  p 
 p    p 
 p They are a highly social animal and live in groups controlled by a dominant male.  p 
 p    p 
 p In the language of the Guarani Indians, capybara means “master of the grasses”.  p 
 p  b Least Concern:  b  The Capybara is common or abundant and is likely to survive in the wild.  p 
 p Adoption is simple. Show how much you care about animals all year round by selecting your favorite animal from our adoption list.  p 
 p This herbivore eats mainly grasses and aquatic plants. Their consumption may reach as much as six to eight pounds per day!  p 
 p Every visit to the Zoo is a unique experience that awakens your senses. With a Buffalo Zoo membership you may visit the Zoo as often as you like – and your admission is absolutely FREE.  p 
 p  i class="fa fa-location-arrow" aria-hidden="true"   i 300 Parkside Ave.Buffalo NY 14214  p 
 p  i class="fa fa-phone" aria-hidden="true"   i (716) 837-3900  p 
 p  i class="fa fa-clock-o" aria-hidden="true"   i Regular Hours 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. (Grounds close at 5:00 p.m.) Reptile House is closed until the spring of 2019.														 
								  p 
 p  i class="fa fa-ticket" aria-hidden="true"   i Buy Tickets  p 
 p Be the first to receive newsletters, event news and special offers.   p 
 p    p 
 p class="invue" ©2019 Buffalo Zoo | All rights reserved. Made with Buffalove by  a href="http:  www.invuedigital.com " target="_blank"  img src="https:  buffalozoo.org wp-content themes buffalo-zoo assets img footer invueicon.png" width="18px"   b INVUE  b  DIGITAL  a   p 
 p please call 716-837-3900 for additional ticket information  p 
 p No  p 
