 p       p 
 p  strong Class   strong Mammalia  p 
 p  strong Order  strong  Rodentia  p 
 p  strong Family  strong   Hydrochaeridae  p 
 p  strong Genus  strong  Hydrochoerus  p 
 p  strong Species  strong  hydrochaeris  p 
 p The capybara inhabits densely vegetated areas and forests around lakes, streams, swamps and marshes.  p 
 p The capybara ranges through Central and South America.  p 
 p Like all rodents, the capybara’s two front teeth continuously grow throughout their life. They gnaw on tree trunks and chew grasses to wear down the teeth. These herbivores are very efficient grazers using their teeth to crop short grasses and other vegetation.  p 
 p The capybara’s eyes, nostrils and ears are located near the top of the head – an adaptation for their semi-aquatic life. They are excellent divers and swimmers with partially webbed toes. When threatened by predators on land, they retreat to the safety of water, and escape by swimming away, hiding in floating vegetation or staying submerged for several minutes.  p 
 p The capybara diet is high in cellulose, which is hard to digest. To process the cellulose they have a large fermentation chamber called the cecum, but they are unable to absorb nutrients from the cecum. To allow for more complete absorption of the nutrients capybaras recycle their food by ingesting their feces - a practice called coprophagy.  p 
 p Like all rodents, the capybara’s two front teeth continuously grow throughout their life. They gnaw on tree trunks and chew grasses to wear down the teeth. These herbivores are very efficient grazers using their teeth to crop short grasses and other vegetation.  p 
 p  em In the wild:  em  Grasses, aquatic plants, tree bark, grains, squash, melon and other fruits br 
 em At the zoo  em : Rodent pellets with vitamins and minerals plus fruits, vegetables and hay  p 
 p Young are vulnerable to predation by vultures, feral dogs, caimans and foxes; adults are vulnerable to predation by jaguars, and some by caimans and anacondas.  p 
 p Capybara are social animals living in groups of 10-30 composed of a dominant male, one or more females, infants and young, plus one or more subordinate males. They maintain and defend a territory when vegetation is plentiful. During the dry season groups of up to 100 may congregate together.  p 
 p Capybara are sexually mature at about 18 months. Breeding takes place in the water and occurs year round. After a gestation of about 150 days, females give birth to litters of up to seven young. Newborns weigh about two to three lbs (1-1.4 kg); they can see, and are covered with hair. A few hours after birth they are able to stand and run. Young can eat grass within the first week but depend primarily on mother’s milk for the first few months, then are weaned at about a year. Females in the herd share the job of providing milk for the young as well as protecting and caring for them. Capybara can live eight to 10 years in the wild and up to 12 years in captivity.  p 
 p Although their numbers had previously declined due to hunting for food and leather, capybara are now classified as lower risk. Laws restricting the number of capybara that can be legally hunted as well as ranching capybaras for the meat market have helped stabilized capybara populations.  p 
 p Get the FREE Denver Zoo app today, and be a pro the next time you visit the Zoo. You’ll get access to the Zoo map, daily activities and schedules, animal facts, and more. You can even load your membership card onto the app for additional convenience. It puts everything you need for an amazing Zoo experience right into the palm of your hand!  p 
 p  a href="https:  itunes.apple.com us app denver-zoo-mobile id1175927683?mt=8" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Download iOS  a    a href="https:  play.google.com store apps details?id=com.vantixsystems.denverzoomobile&amp;hl=en" Download Android  a   p 
 p class="fotbot" style="text-align: center;" Web development by  a class="newmed" href="https:  newmediadenver.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener" NEWMEDIA  a   p 
