 p Capybaras can hold their breath underwater for a few minutes – very useful if a jaguar is chasing you!  p 
 p They will sleep underwater if necessary, keeping their nose just above the water line  p 
 p Capybaras are the world’s largest rodent. They have a large barrel-shaped body with a thick fur coat which ranges in colour from brown to reddish and a tough skin.  p 
 p They are semi-aquatic animals and their eyes and ears are high on the head so they can easily be kept above water when swimming. They have simple webs between their toes which help propel them through water.  p 
 p Capybaras are herbivorous, grazing on grasses, aquatic plants, fruits and tree bark. Their front teeth grow continuously to make up for the wear and tear of eating grasses.  p 
 p Capybara means Master of the Grasses in the language of the Guarani Indians of South America.  p 
 p Most activities are carried out on land using water as a refuge from predators such as jaguar, puma, ocelot, eagle and caiman. They also dig shallow holes in the ground in which to hide.  p 
 p The hottest hours of the day are spent in the water. Their skin dries in hot sun which is why they like to wallow in mud.  p 
 p They live in large family groups controlled by a dominant male, recognised by the large shiny gland on the bridge of the nose that is used for smearing scent onto grasses to mark his territory.  p 
 p Communication is made with clicks, squeals and grunts. Scent is also an important part of their lives. Not only is it used by the dominant male but also by females to communicate that they are ready for mating. Females give birth to up to eight young after a gestation period of 130 days.  p 
 p class="tnc-advert-content" A birthday celebration with Dudley Zoological Gardens is a smashing time for youngsters alongside our wildest party animals!  p 
 p class="disclaimer" 
		Dudley Zoological Gardens is owned and operated by Dudley and West Midlands Zoological Society Limited. br 
		Registered charity number: 507221	  p 
 p class="address" 
		Dudley Zoological Gardens  span class="sep" |  span  Castle Hill  span class="sep" |  span  Dudley  span class="sep" |  span  West Midlands  span class="sep" |  span  DY1 4QF	  p 
 p class="contact-details" 
		Tel:  strong 01384 215313  strong   span class="sep" |  span  Fax:  strong 01384 456 048  strong   span class="sep" |  span  Email:  strong admin@dudleyzoo.org.uk  strong 
	  p 
 p We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.  p 
 p You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in  span data-href="#moove_gdpr_cookie_modal" class="change-settings-button" settings  span .  p 
 p This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.  p 
 p For more information view our full  a href="https:  www.dudleyzoo.org.uk privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a .  p 
 p You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side.  p 
 p Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.  p 
 p If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.  p 
 p This website uses Google Analytics to collect anonymous information such as the number of visitors to the site, and the most popular pages.  p 
 p Keeping this cookie enabled helps us to improve our website.  p 
 p Please enable Strictly Necessary Cookies first so that we can save your preferences!  p 
