 p class="BylineBar_reading-time" style="color:undefined" 2 Min Read  p 
 p LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A giant South American rodent weighing at least 100 pounds (45 kgs) was spotted at a waste-water treatment facility in California recently before disappearing in the brush, according to a wildlife official.    p 
 p A capybaras (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), born in captivity 15 days ago, follows its mother at the Santa Fe Zoo in Medellin March 8, 2010. REUTERS Albeiro Lopera  p 
 p The animal, which was identified as a capybara, is the world’s largest rodent and feeds on vegetation.    p 
 p “If you think a giant guinea pig is cute, then you probably would like it,” said Todd Tognazzini, of the California Department of Fish and Game.    p 
 p The capybara is believed to be an escaped pet, Tognazzini said. It was last seen about two weeks ago at a waste-water treatment facility in Paso Robles, 175 miles northwest of Los Angeles, he said.    p 
 p An employee at the plant took photos of the animal as it crawled out of a pond.    p 
 p The capybara’s South American habitat ranges from Panama to northeast Argentina, east of the Andes, according to a description on the website of the San Francisco Zoo.    p 
 p The animal spotted near the Salinas River and a hot spring, a watery habitat that in some ways resembles the regions where capybaras live in South America, Tognazzini said.    p 
 p A capybara can hold its breath under water for up to five minutes, and the animal spends much of its roughly four-year lifespan near the water, he said.    p 
 p The latest spotting of the capybara comes two years after another sighting of the animal a mile away.    p 
 p Officials believe it was the same animal last seen at the waste-water treatment facility in Paso Robles, and that there are no other capybaras in the area.    p 
 p In California, the capybara cannot be held as a pet without a special permit. But that does not mean that some people do not keep them as illegal pets.    p 
 p “The Internet is fraught with examples of people scratching them on the belly and thinking they’re cute and making pets of them,” Tognazzini said.    p 
 p The California Department of Fish and Game do not view the animal as dangerous.    p 
 p class="Attribution_content" Reporting by Alex Dobuzinskis: Editing by Dan Whitcomb  p 
 p  span All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See   span  a href="  www.reuters.com info disclaimer" target="_blank" here for a complete list  a  span  of exchanges and delays.  span   p 
 p  a href="  thomsonreuters.com copyright %20" target="_blank"  span ©  !-- -- 2019 !-- --    span  span Reuters. All Rights Reserved.  span   a   p 
