 p class="bodytext"  i (Hydrochoerus   i  i hydrochaeris  i  i )  i   p 
 p class="bodytext"  strong CHARACTERISTICS  strong    p 
 p class="bodytext"  b Origin  b  br South America  p 
 p  b Habitat br   b Flooded grasslands, swamps  p 
 p  b Diet br   b Grasses, aquatic plants, leaves, nuts, fruits  p 
 p  b Status br   b No accurate information about their status available  p 
 p class="bodytext"  b Size br   b Approx. 1 to 1.30 m  p 
 p  b Weight  b  br 35 to 66 kg  p 
 p  b Gestation period  b  br Approx. 5 months  p 
 p  b Achievable age  b  br Up to approx. 12 years  p 
 p class="bodytext"  strong What you should know about capybaras  strong  br The Indian name of the water pig, 'capybara', means 'master of the grasses', which also reveals their main source of food. Their perfectly positioned sensory organs on the top of their heads, such as the nose, ears and eyes, is indicative of the fact that they are particularly well adapted to life in the water. This enables them to almost completely submerge themselves, yet still being able to see, smell and hear properly. br  br  strong A diet of solid food from a very young age  strong  br Capybaras produce offspring once a year. The little capybaras are suckled for two months, but they are capable of nibbling thin parts of plants shortly after their birth. A practical necessity, because the little ones are left to fend for themselves after the end of the suckling period. br  strong  br Strength in numbers  strong  br They live together in large groups of up to 30 animals. The precise composition may vary depending the surroundings and season. The drier it is, the larger the group. You will very rarely see them on their own – and if you do, they are more likely to be young males. br  br  strong Is it true, that ...?  strong  br Even though their name is slightly misleading, the 'water pigs' aren't actually pigs, but rodents. The length of approx. 130 cm that the head-body length may reach (with a size that is comparable to a sheep), makes them the largest rodents in the world.  p 
 p class="bodytext"  a href="en zoo-animals" class="internal-link" Back to the overview  a   p 
 p class="bodytext" Please also visit  p 
 p © 2019 Zoologischer Garten Berlin AG, Hardenbergplatz 8, 10787 Berlin, Tel. +49 30 25401-0  p 
 p We updated our privacy statement in order to strengthen your rights concerning data protection  p 
 p In order to optimize our website continuously for you, we use cookies. You may deny the usage of cookies. For details, please refer to our  a class="read-more-link" href="https:  www.zoo-berlin.de en data-protection" Privacy Policy  a .  p 
