 p class="meta" 
   i class="fa fa-bookmark"   i 
  2 minute read
  p 
 p  a href="http:  science.jrank.org " Science Encyclopedia  a  i class="link-spacer"   i  a href="http:  science.jrank.org collection 775 Science-Philosophy-Calcium-Sulfate-Categorical-imperative.html" rel="nofollow" Science &amp; Philosophy:  em Calcium Sulfate  em  to  em Categorical imperative  em   a   p 
 p Capybaras, also known as carpinchos or  b  a href=" pages 7301 Water.html" water  a   b  hogs, are large South American  b  a href=" pages 5920 Rodents.html" rodents  a   b  in the family Hydrochaeridae.  i Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris  i  is the larger of the two  b  a href=" pages 6353 Species.html" species  a   b  of capybaras, and is the world's largest rodent. It can reach a body weight of 110 lb (50 kg), a body length of 4.5 ft (1.3 m), and a height of 1.5 ft (50 cm).  i Hydrochaeris isthmius  i  is about half this size.  i H. hydrochaeris  i  has a wide distribution in  b  a href=" pages 6314 South-America.html" South America  a   b , while  i H. isthmius  i  has a relatively restricted distribution in Panama, western Colombia, and northwestern Venezuela. Some scientists, however, regard  i H. hydrochaeris  i  and  i H. isthmius  i  as a single species.  p 
 p Capybaras have a large head with a blunt snout and small ears. The body is stout, robust, and almost tailless. The feet of capybaras are partially webbed and have four digits on the forefeet and three on the hind, and all have strong claws. The fur of capybaras is long, coarse, and rather sparse, so that naked skin can be seen. The body  b  a href=" pages 1603 Color.html" color  a   b  is generally brownish or grayish. Capybaras have a strong physical resemblance to another group of much smaller South American rodents, the closely related guinea  b  a href=" pages 5229 Pigs.html" pigs  a   b  (family Caviidae).  p 
 p Capybaras are semi-aquatic animals, occurring in a wide range of terrestrial habitats in the vicinity of  b  a href=" pages 2857 Freshwater.html" freshwater  a   b , including the forested edges of streams,  b  a href=" pages 5891 Rivers.html" rivers  a   b , ponds, lakes, swamps, and marshes. Capybaras can run easily on land, and when disturbed near water they generally swim and dive to escape. These animals can swim with only their eyes and nostrils exposed to the atmosphere, or they can swim completely submerged.  p 
 p Capybaras are herbivores, eating a wide range of aquatic, near-shore, and riparian plants. Capybaras sometimes feed with cattle and other domestic herbivores, and they are known to raid gardens for  b  a href=" pages 7159 Vegetables.html" vegetables  a   b ,  b  a href=" pages 2878 Fruits.html" fruits  a   b , and grains. Capybaras feed most actively during the moderate temperatures of dawn and dusk, spending the  b  a href=" pages 3262 Heat.html" heat  a   b  of the day in a cool, underground excavation. However, in places where they are frequently disturbed or hunted by people, capybaras generally develop a nocturnal habit.  p 
 p Capybaras are peaceful, social animals, living in extended family groups containing as many as several tens of animals. They give  b  a href=" pages 933 Birth.html" birth  a   b  once a year to two to eight    


 span class="image_group" 

 span class="caption" 
 b A South American capybara (  b  i  b Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris  b   i  b ).  b   credit Photograph by Robert J. Huffman. Field Mark Publications. Reproduced by permission  credit .
  span 
  span 

offspring. Capybaras are known to live as long as 10 years in the wild.  p 
 p Capybaras are hunted by various species of natural predators, including jaguar and large caimans. They are also hunted by humans, because they are often regarded as agricultural  b  a href=" pages 5110 Pests.html" pests  a   b . The meat of capybaras is sometimes consumed, although it is not regarded as one of the higher-quality game species. The capybara is still widespread and abundant over much of its natural range.  p 
 p Bill Freedman  p 
 p 
              Copyright © 2019 Net Industries
                              and its Licensors
                             i class="link-spacer"   i 
              All Rights Reserved
               br 
               a href="http:  science.jrank.org about terms" rel="nofollow" Terms of Use  a 
              p 
 p Share this article
              p 
