 p class="site-search_intro__tablet-down" Type and then tap 'go' to search…  p 
 p class="site-search_intro__desktop" Type and then press 'enter' to search…  p 
 p  span data-paging-current 1  span  of  span data-paging-total 1  span   p 
 p images  p 
 p They can be found living in small herds on grassland, in tropical rainforest, as well as in wetlands across most of the continent. Capybaras spend much of their time in the water.  p 
 p Their scientific name means ‘water pig’, and their bodies have been specially adapted for swimming - with webbed feet and their eyes, ears and nostrils located on top of their heads.  p 
 p They're able to stay submerged in water for around five minutes with very little of their body showing - helping them to avoid detection by predators such as jaguars, anacondas and caiman.  p 
 p While the capybara is not currently classified as an endangered species, it is threatened by habitat degradation and illegal poaching for its meat and skin, which can be turned into leather.   p 
 p  br 
  p 
 p  strong IUCN Status:   strong Least Concern  p 
 p  strong Where they live:  strong  South America  p 
 p  strong Habitat:  strong  Wetlands, grasslands, tropical rainforests  p 
 p  strong Size:   strong Capybara can grow over 1m in length  p 
 p  strong Weight:  strong  Up to 60kg  p 
 p  strong Threats:  strong  Threatened by habitat degradation and illegal poaching for its meat and skin, which can be turned into leather  p 
 p  strong Scientific Name:  strong   em Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris   em   p 
 p 
					We're open from 10am till 4.30pm, with last entry 30 minutes before closing.
				  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" 
					Full opening times
				  p 
 p  strong   strong Right now  strong conservation is critical   strong and species are under threat. We won't stand back and we won't give up.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Act now  p 
 p We've got everything you need for inspirational learning, from curriculum-linked workshops to self-guided visits.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Plan your school trip  p 
 p 
							Chester Zoo, Upton-by-Chester, Chester, . Sat Nav
							. Registered Charity No.
							306077
						  p 
