 p When designing an enclosure for capybaras it is essential to provide them with an environment in which they can display their natural behaviours. The  strong two most important requirements  strong  for a capybara enclosure are a large pond pool and access to grazing.  p 
 p  strong Animal Welfare is the foundation of what all good zoos do  strong . We can provide good Animal Welfare by taking a behaviour-based husbandry approach to how we manage animals. That means we do not focus on what we are providing for the animals. Rather we focus on what the animal’s behaviour is telling us that the animals’ need. We do this by recognising that all of the behaviours which an animal exhibits are meaningful, and therefore helpful in informing us about what that animal may need.  p 
 p Behaviour based husbandry incorporates all elements of good animal welfare: good health,  strong psychological well-being, and the expression of natural behaviours.  strong  In addition to the design and enrichment of the enclosure, we  strong MUST  strong  also  strong ensure positive human animal relationships  strong . The capybara must have  strong choices  strong  so that he she has some  strong control over his life  strong , his environment and his daily routines, as he would in the wild in his natural habitat.  p 
 p It is imperative that keepers do not try to control capybaras. Rodents, as a species, are particularly intolerant of being controlled. Keepers must understand capybara behaviour. They must be sensitive to a capybara’s mood and what the capybaras’ behaviour is communicating, otherwise the capybara will suffer stress.  p 
 p In order to understand capybara behaviour the keeper must immerse himself in the lives of the capybaras in his care. He must learn the relationships between the capybaras in the herd. He must be aware that these relationships may change. He must be able to distinguish between different behaviours in order to understand their significance. A good capybara keeper will intuitively understand animal behaviour. He will need to be sensitive and intelligent. He will need to have the patience and interest in capybara behaviour to spend long hours observing capybara behaviour.  p 
 p  strong Positive human capybara interactions are the foundation  strong   strong of providing good welfare for the capybaras we manage  strong . These capybaras rely on us to provide for all their needs: food, shelter, enrichment, mating opportunities and companionship.  strong If we are unresponsive, negative, unpredictable  strong   strong or aggressive in our interactions with our capybaras  strong   strong we can create significant stress for them  strong .  p 
 p  strong At all times it is vitally important that we are aware  strong   strong of how what we do may affect our  strong   strong capybaras  strong .  p 
 p In 2009 Vicky A. Melfi, Zoologist and Animal Welfare Scientist, Identified three primary gaps in our knowledge and approach to zoo animal welfare. Two of these are relevant to capybaras:  p 
 p  strong One  strong : We tend to focus on indicators of poor welfare and assume that a lack of poor welfare is equivalent to good welfare. However,  strong a lack of poor welfare does not necessarily  strong   strong indicate good welfare  strong .  p 
 p  strong Two  strong :  strong it is important that we look at an animal’s housing and husbandry  strong   strong from the perspective of what that species needs  strong   strong and not from a human perspective  strong .  p 
 p Zoos have traditionally built hygienic enclosures that meet human requirements in terms of cleaning and sweeping and housing structures, but which do not provide for the psychological needs of the animals they are designed to house.  p 
 p  strong In good zoos today these traditional enclosures have been redeveloped or modified as we recognise that animals have very different behavioural priorities to people. Understanding Animal Behaviour is vital in order to provide appropriate housing and husbandry. It is important to remember that the expression of their natural behaviours has evolved over millions of years and conferred evolutionary success and indeed the survival of this species.  strong   p 
 p The size of the enclosure should be about one acre or half a hectare for a herd of about 15 capybaras. The size required for the enclosure will depend to some extent on the size of the herd. The landscape of the enclosure should reflect the natural habitat of a capybara living in the wild as far as possible.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4540" class="wp-caption-text" The Large Pond with Trees and Bushes  p 
 p Capybaras are semiaquatic, and can be very energetic and playful in water, therefore a large pond or pool should be provided. Capybaras are grazing animals, grasses form the staple of their diet, which means they should have access to grass.  p 
 p  strong    strong  img data-attachment-id="4548" data-permalink="https:  capybaraworld.wordpress.com 2017 08 27 capybara-enclosure-design-capybara-management-and-the-welfare-of-capybaras-in-zoos-and-captive-environments wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012 #main" data-orig-file="https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=536&amp;h=402" data-orig-size="2048,1536" data-comments-opened="1" data-image-meta='{"aperture":"0","credit":"","camera":"","caption":"","created_timestamp":"0","copyright":"","focal_length":"0","iso":"0","shutter_speed":"0","title":"","orientation":"0"}' data-image-title="WN Aki escapes to eat grass August 2012" data-image-description="" data-medium-file="https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=536&amp;h=402?w=300" data-large-file="https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=536&amp;h=402?w=750" class="  wp-image-4548 aligncenter" src="https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=536&amp;h=402" alt="WN Aki escapes to eat grass August 2012" width="536" height="402" srcset="https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=536&amp;h=402 536w, https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=1072&amp;h=804 1072w, https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=150&amp;h=113 150w, https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=300&amp;h=225 300w, https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=768&amp;h=576 768w, https:  capybaraworld.files.wordpress.com 2017 08 wn-aki-escapes-to-eat-grass-august-2012.jpg?w=1024&amp;h=768 1024w" sizes="(max-width: 536px) 100vw, 536px"   p 
 p It is also essential that the keepers who care for the capybaras have a deep interest in and understanding of capybara behaviour and animal welfare. They must spend time observing the capybaras so that they can recognise behaviours and understand the relationships between the individual capybaras in order that they can manage the herd to ensure the best welfare and to avoid aggression. They should observe the condition of the capybaras including their size weight, the condition of their coat hair, how much they eat, how they chew (for possible tooth problems) and any signs of abnormal behaviours so if there are any developing health issues these can be treated at an early stage.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4552" class="wp-caption-text" This view of the pond when it was emptied for cleaning, gives an idea of the placement of stone ledges and stepping stones which allow the capybaras easy access in and out of the pond, and also provide ledges where the capybaras can rest partially submerged in water.  p 
 p Capybaras in captivity may be fed pellets and appropriate vegetables to ensure that their dietary requirements are met. There should be a feeding station for each capybara to ensure that every capybara gets enough to eat. If capybaras in a herd are competing for food this will lead to aggression. Once aggression becomes established in the herd it is extremely difficult to eradicate. For this reason every effort should be made to ensure that feeding does not involve competition between capybaras for food. The keepers may need to sit beside and guard some capybaras at the bottom of the hierarchy if they are not getting enough to eat because other larger and more senior (in the hierarchy) capybaras intimidate them and push them away from food.  p 
 p In their natural habitat in South America researchers have not found evidence of a female hierarchy. However, in captivity where the capybaras are living in a confined environment and sometimes competing for food or facilities, a strong female hierarchy develops. The keepers will need to be observant and ensure the well-being of capybaras at the bottom of the hierarchy. Male capybaras are hierarchical and can be very aggressive to other males including their own adult male offspring.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4570" class="wp-caption-text" Capybaras love to mark  their territory by rubbing their anal scent glands on twigs, as in this photo, branches or other vegetation  p 
 p If a capybara is so badly injured that he she has to be taken out of the herd and put in a separate enclosure to recover from the wounds, it will almost certainly be impossible for that capybara to be reintroduced back into the herd. The capybaras most likely to attack an injured capybara are those immediately below the injured capybara in the hierarchy.  p 
 p  strong Enclosure Enrichment  strong : the purpose of enrichment, both environmental and cognitive, is to ensure the well-being of animals in captivity. Enrichment allows animals to make choices and lead interesting and stimulating lives, and to be able to exhibit their natural behaviours.  p 
 p The  strong physical enrichment  strong  of the enclosure should include:  p 
 p  strong A large pool or pond  strong . The capybaras should have easy access to this pond or pool. Depending on the number of capybaras the size of the pond pool should be at least 12 feet 4 m x 24 feet 8 m. Most of this pond should be 4 feet 1.3 m in depth, but some areas should be at shallow depths of 1 and 2 feet, .3 and .6 m, so that the capybara can rest partially submerged in water, and also easily get in and out of the pond pool. When the weather is hot capybaras go into the water to thermoregulate, i.e. to keep cool. They also seek water as a refuge from danger. In captivity a capybara might be being chased and therefore seek refuge in water. Additionally, if the capybara is injured in some way, perhaps his her teeth have broken at the root (capybaras have hypsodont teeth which means they grow continually. These broken teeth will grow back in just over two weeks) and the capybara feels vulnerable, he she will seek refuge in water.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4556" class="wp-caption-text" Capybaras are very playful and energetic in the pond or pool. It is essential that this pond pool is large enough for capybaras to exercise and express their natural behaviours.  p 
 p  strong Shelter  strong : the enclosure must provide some shelter from sun, heat and rain. This could be provided by trees and bushes, or by a man-made structure.  p 
 p  strong Enclosures in Cooler Climates:   strong Capybaras prefer a temperature of at least 24°C or 75°F. If the capybara enclosure is in a climate with cold winters than the capybaras must be provided with a sheltered hut with heating to prevent suffering and frostbite.  p 
 p  strong Grass  strong : it is essential for capybaras to have access to grazing. Capybaras’ digestive system has evolved over 30 million years for a diet of grasses which are high in fibre but low in calories. In their natural habitat, in South America, capybaras eat grasses, aquatic plants, sedges and chew on the bark of bushes and trees. For the health of  strong capybara teeth   strong it is essential that they have access to coarse materials to chew on in order to control the growth of their teeth. Several capybaras in captivity have died because their diet was based on soft foods which did not ensure the health of their teeth. It is essential for animals in captivity to exhibit their natural behaviours and grazing is one of the most important behaviours for a capybara. Capybaras did not evolve to eat two meals a day; they must be allowed to have access to grazing appropriate food when they are hungry.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4563" class="wp-caption-text" It is important that capybaras can graze when they feel hungry.  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong : the capybara diet should be augmented by the provision of appropriate pellets. If there is insufficient grass to provide enough grazing daily than green leaf vegetables such as cabbage, lettuce etc can also be fed. The vegetable should not have a high sugar content. Capybaras should not eat carrots as carrots have too high a level of Vitamin A and this can cause liver damage. Many capybaras in Japan suffer an early death due to liver damage. Capybaras should also not eat fruit because of the high sugar content. A probiotic like Benebac or Bio 3 can be given to treat mild cases of diarrhoea.  p 
 p  strong Appropriate Vegetation:   strong this should include branches or palm fronds and perhaps leaves which provide soft bedding for the capybaras to lie on when resting or sleeping. Capybaras like to mark their territory by rubbing their anal scent glands over vegetation such as branches and palm fronds. As mentioned above it is essential for the health of capybara teeth that they have access to coarse vegetation, like branches or palm fronds, to chew on. Some capybaras like to chew on stones. These stones must be hard so that they do not disintegrate in the capybaras mouth when chewed, and get swallowed causing injury to their digestive tract.  p 
 p It is essential that animals in captivity are able to express their natural behaviours. It is also very important that the visiting public should see how animals behave in their natural habitat.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-4566" class="wp-caption-text" Capybaras are very graceful as they swim in this large pool.  p 
 p The lives of animals in captivity can be very boring and boredom leads to stress. To avoid boredom and stress the enclosure should provide cognitive and occupational activities to stimulate the minds of the capybaras and encourage physical activity to keep the capybaras healthy.  p 
 p These enrichment activities can include the appropriate vegetation mentioned above and other natural objects which can be manipulated or played with. Feeding can also be done in a way that provides entertainment for the capybaras. For example, branches of bamboo can be positioned in different parts of the enclosure so that the capybaras have to rise up on their hind legs to eat it or pull it down. Branches of bamboo can be tied to the bushes overhanging the pond pool so that the capybaras can entertain themselves trying to rise up to eat it. Food pellets can be scattered, or hidden in different areas for the capybaras to find.  p 
 p The activities described above would also provide cognitive enrichment as the capybaras engage in problem-solving to achieve their food reward.  p 
 p  strong Sensory and Social Enrichment:   strong capybaras are a highly social and gregarious species. A capybara should never be housed alone, on its own in an enclosure. This would be extremely stressful and would lead to changes in the capybara’s behaviour and personality. Stress levels can be determined by analysing faeces for the presence of stress hormones like cortisol. Extreme stress can lead to changes in the brain structure and an early death.  p 
 p As capybaras are extremely social and very responsive to tactile stimulation, it is important that the zookeepers responsible for the capybaras pet them and are very friendly. Initially the capybaras may not trust the keeper, so the keeper first has to gain the trust of the capybara in order to get close enough to pet the capybara. To achieve this the keeper could offer food or perhaps a branch of bamboo, and when the capybara comes close to eat the food the keeper can slowly and gently begin to pet the capybara. Capybaras love to be petted; their hair rises, they lie down and roll over and vocalise. Capybara vocalisations include the most beautiful sounds. Positive human animal relationships are vitally important for the well-being of the capybaras living under the care of humans.  p 
 p If visitors to the zoo will be able to enter the capybara enclosure it is essential that there is an area of the enclosure which is not accessible to these visitors. This is to allow the capybaras to go somewhere private otherwise they may become stressed if they cannot choose whether they wish to be in the company of human visitors or not. Also, ideally, there should be an island in the pond to which the capybaras can go to escape humans.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-2725" class="wp-caption-text" Capybaras Enjoy Mud.  They enjoy rolling in mud and it is good for their skins.  p 
 p  strong Mud  strong : capybaras love to roll in mud. It is good for the condition of their skin and can help to exterminate mites or ticks. Mud provides capybaras with enjoyment and relaxation. Rolling in mud is a natural behaviour which capybaras should be able to exhibit in a captive environment.  p 
 p    p 
 p At all times it is vitally important that we are aware of how what we do may affect our animals.  p 
 p The basic Animal Welfare protocol is  strong The  strong   strong Five Freedoms:        strong   p 
 p Freedom from hunger and thirst: by ready access to fresh water and a diet to maintain full health and vigour.  p 
 p Freedom from discomfort: by providing an appropriate environment including shelter and a comfortable resting area.  p 
 p Freedom from pain, injury or disease: by prevention through rapid diagnosis and treatment.  p 
 p Freedom to express normal behaviour: by providing sufficient space, proper facilities and company of the animal’s own kind.  p 
 p Freedom from fear and distress: by ensuring conditions and treatment which avoid mental suffering.  p 
 p  strong The Five Welfare Domains:   strong However, The Five Freedoms protocol was developed in 1965 to rectify the suffering of farm animals, i.e. animals used in agriculture. The Five Freedoms protocol simply emphasises what is our basic duty but does not go far enough to ensure the well-being that we would want for animals kept in captivity and in zoos. We need to provide animals with enjoyable and positive experiences. To address this, David Mellor, an Animal Welfare Scientist working in New Zealand, has developed  strong The Five Welfare Domains.   strong The aim of The Five Welfare Domains is to ensure that animals have positive physical and emotional experiences. This is essential for good animal welfare and the well-being of animals in captivity.  p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.  p 
 p Join 92 other followers  p 
 p 
                     input type="hidden" name="action" value="subscribe" 
                     input type="hidden" name="blog_id" value="40011193" 
                     input type="hidden" name="source" value="https:  capybaraworld.wordpress.com category capybara-management-in-captivity " 
                     input type="hidden" name="sub-type" value="widget" 
                     input type="hidden" name="redirect_fragment" value="blog_subscription-2" 
					 input type="hidden" id="_wpnonce" name="_wpnonce" value="38381bbb93"                      button type="submit" 
		                Follow                      button 
                  p 
