 p If you want to have a capybara as a pet, it's essential that your house has a garden in which you can install a plastic pool of a certain size. If you look at the morphology of the animal, you'll understand that this is a clearly  strong aquatic species  strong : Its eyes and ears are on the top of its head and it has webbed feet.  p 
 p If you want your pet capybara to be happy and healthy, you must provide it with a suitable habitat. Keep reading this Animal Wised article and learn about the basic requirements to keep  strong a capybara as a pet  strong .  p 
 p  strong Capybaras  strong  are animals from  strong South and Central America  strong . They are the largest rodents in existence, and they are not one but divided into two species:  p 
 p Capybaras can weigh up to 65 kg - 145 pounds.  strong Female capybaras are bigger  strong , while males weigh about 10 to 15 kg (22 to 33 pounds) less.  p 
 p Capybaras eat grass, lake algae and occasionally - like  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com guinea-pig-breeds-hair-types-and-colors-553.html" guinea pigs  a  - their own waste, in order to digest food more thoroughly. Their feces are oval-shaped and dry. In captivity they eat watermelon, corn, lettuce, and a wide range of fruits and vegetables.  p 
 p Capybaras don't produce strong  vitamin C  strong  by themselves, which is why they should be given supplements when kept in captivity in order to prevent scurvy, or provide them with a diet rich in this vitamin.  p 
 p The capybara can be tamed. It is a clean and friendly animal, providing that a number of important rules are met. Firstly, you must bear in mind that strong  capybaras live in packs  strong . Only a few males live alone. Therefore, if you only wish to adopt one capybara, it's better for it to be a male. If you are able to have several, male-female or female-female could be a good combination.  p 
 p Whatever the case,  strong males should be sterilized  strong  to prevent them from becoming aggressive when they reach adulthood. Males are territorial. Sterilization should take place between 6 and 9 months old.  p 
 p Pet capybaras should only be acquired from  strong pet shops with guarantees  strong . Avoid buying them online without guarantees; you may be in for an unpleasant surprise, as these animals are expensive to acquire, given how exotic they are.  p 
 p Pet capybaras have a life expectancy twice as long as those in the wild. In captivity strong  they can live for up to 12 years  strong . If their habitat is suitable, they are not difficult to care for.  p 
 p However, if you keep them in a flat where you cannot bathe them whenever they need it, they will strong  easily suffer from skin disorders  strong  that can be fatal. Capybaras are prone to getting sunstroke because their fur is thin in some areas. Therefore they  strong wallow in mud  strong  to protect themselves from solar radiation.  p 
 p It is imperative that a vet keeps an eye on the health of your capybara, just like if your pet were a dog a or cat.  p 
 p  strong Capybaras can be tamed  strong . They are intelligent animals which can be taught a range of tricks and behaviors. They can ask for food, sit down and show affection, among many other habits.  p 
 p Capybaras  strong make a wide range of sounds  strong  to show their happiness, alert, submission and many other specific states.  p 
 p  strong Capybaras can be perfect pets if their specific needs are met  strong : A place to shelter, grass and straw, plus a shallow pool full of water, which is essential.  p 
 p Food is also an important point, but this is not an expensive item that should prevent you from getting one.  p 
 p If you want to read similar articles to  strong The Capybara as a Pet  strong , we recommend you visit our  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com before-adopting what-you-need-to-know" class="ga" data-category="Post" data-event="categoria ultimo paso" What you need to know  a  category.  p 
