 p Riverbanks Zoo is home to more than 2,000 animals that represent more than 350 species from around the world. A visit to the Zoo will play host to an array of wild adventures — from a diving expedition on a Pacific coral reef to a safari through the plains of Africa to an interactive Outback encounter with a flock of sociable lorikeets. There’s so much to do at the Zoo — check out our exhibits to learn more!  p 
 p Watch giraffes, zebras, and ostriches roam on a 2-acre reproduction of an Africa savanna, and observe lions and baboons in their separate natural habitat exhibits.  p 
 p Various endangered and vulnerable Asian species are housed at Riverbanks including tigers, babirusas, siamangs, a tapir, and Komodo dragons.  p 
 p Koala Knockabout is home to koalas, Australian fish and reptiles. The young and the young-at-heart won’t want to miss the opportunity to feed the friendly lories in the neighboring interactive lorikeet aviary. And, if you like the sound of mingling with the marsupials, be sure to check out Kangaroo Walkabout — an interactive walk-through exhibit featuring red kangaroos and wallabies!  p 
 p Guests are greeted by North American river otters at Otter Run with broad under- and above-water views of swimming otters as well as unparalleled, shared-boundary views of neighboring grizzly bears. Grizzly Ridge offers nose-to-nose views of the bears through expansive and kid-size windows. Sea Lion Landing, a spectacular reproduction of San Francisco’s Pier 39, features California sea lions and a harbor seal, and brings awareness to the challenges that arise when wildlife lives in and near human communities.  p 
 p Take a tour of the award-winning, 20,000-square-foot Aquarium Reptile Complex (ARC). Amphibians, reptiles, fish, and invertebrates are on display in four galleries: South Carolina, the Desert, the Tropics, and the Ocean—featuring a 55,000-gallon Pacific coral reef tank with sharks, moray eels, and more. Join us in the ARC at 12:30pm daily for exciting diving demonstrations.  p 
 p The Birdhouse at Riverbanks features three distinctive, geographically-themed bird habitats: Penguin Coast, a habitat for rockhopper, king, and gentoo penguins; Asian Trek, featuring birds such as the wreathed hornbill, birds of paradise, and the critically endangered Bali mynah; and Savanna Camp, showcasing the birds of the arid African and South American savannas.  p 
 p Riverbanks has recreated this part of Africa as a sanctuary for gorillas, elephants, and meerkats, giving visitors the opportunity to see these wonderful animals and learn more about them and their natural habitat.  p 
 p Journey through the Riverbanks Conservation Outpost and observe unusual and fascinating small mammals such as golden-lion tamarins, Hoffman’s two-toed sloths, Matschie’s tree kangaroos, fishing cats, and black-footed cats.  p 
 p Stop by Riverbanks Farm and learn about the connections between farm and people, and farm and the natural world.  strong Coming spring 2019:  strong  An all-new interactive farm experience for all ages!  p 
