 p Improve your experience by upgrading to a newer version of one of the following browsers.  p 
 p Learn more »  p 
 p Learn more »  p 
 p Learn more »  p 
 p Learn more »  p 
 p This website requires scripts to work correctly. Please enable scripts and reload the page.  p 
 p This website requires cookies to work correctly. Please enable cookies and reload the page.  p 
 p An account verification email is pending at this address. Please follow the link inside to activate your account and get back to your wild adventures!  p 
 p An email has been sent to the address you provided. Please follow the link inside to activate your account and get back to your wild adventures!  p 
 p The African crested porcupine is the largest porcupine in the world. The black and white quills along the head and back of this spiny mammal can be raised into a crest, hence its common name of crested porcupine. These sturdy, sharp quills, which are about 12 inches long and marked with alternating light and dark bands, provide highly effective protection against predators. You can find our two porcupines in the Tropics at the Zoo.  p 
 p The African Crowned Crane is a beautiful bird famous for its golden crown of feathers.  p 
 p Perhaps one of the world’s most iconic animals, the African elephant is the largest living land mammal, with the largest recorded individual reaching a massive 12 feet tall at the shoulder and weighing an impressive twenty thousand pounds.  96 elephants are poached each day to fuel the trade in ivory; the Kansas City Zoo is partnered with 96elephants.org to help bring an end to the decimation of these incredible animals. You can find our seven elephants near the gateway to Africa.  p 
 p Known as the voice of Africa these majestic fish eagles resemble the American Bald Eagle superficially. You can find Chaka our African Fish eagle in the WOW Wings of Wonder bird show.  p 
 p The African ground hornbill is a large, black, flighted  yet ground dwelling species native to the plains regions of the African continent. Traveling in large family groups these prehistoric looking birds scour the ground in search of large insects, reptiles and small rodents to feed upon. You can find our ground hornbills in Africa near the lagoon.  p 
 p The African Lion is the second largest living cat, native to the grasslands of sub-Saharan Africa, these enigmatic felines are also the only truly social cat. Living in groups called prides, the African lion is distinctive in behavior and appearance. Facing many threats in the wild, African lions are classified as vulnerable to extinction. Visit our lions in the Africa section of the Zoo.  p 
 p Uniquely patterned, the African Painted Dog is one of the world’s most beautiful canines. Living in large, gregarious groups these wild dogs are among the most successful predators in the world. Painted Dogs are among the most endangered canines, with a wild population of around 5,500, and face challenges such as habitat loss and human conflict. You can find our two African Painted Dogs in Africa near the baboons.  p 
 p True giants, the Aldabra tortoise can reach over four feet in length and top 500 pounds when mature. These tortoises are very long lived and adapted to the harsh life of the Seychelles and Aldabran islands. You can find our tortoises in Africa near the plains exhibits.  p 
 p Possibly the most critically endangered big cat, the Amur leopard is estimated to only number around 35 wild animals. Native to the Amur River basin in the Russian Far East, these mountain dwelling felines have nearly been hunted to extinction. You can visit Natalia in the Africa section of the Zoo, across the Swinging Bridge, near the gorillas.  p 
 p Charismatic and full of boundless energy, the Asian small-clawed otter is equally at home on land as in the water. Social, the small-clawed otter lives in family groups of up to 12 individuals and their offspring.  Listed as vulnerable to extinction, the loss of natural habitat is a key factor in their conservation. You can find our small-clawed otters in the Tropics exhibit.  p 
 p With its distinctive oversized ears the bat-earred fox is among the most comical of canines. Their ears play an important role in their ecology though, from communication to finding their next meal. Eating primarily insects, located with its sensitive hearing, this species of fox is almost exclusively nocturnal.  You can find our bat-eared foxes near the lions in Africa.  p 
 p The Australian black swan is a striking, jet black water bird with a red bill and one of the heaviest flying birds in Australia. You can find our black swans in the Australian Aviary.  p 
 p Exceedingly rare and secretive, these handsome cats are also some of the smallest.  These predators are nocturnal and only hunt at night and are rarely seen by humans. You can find these tiny felines near the lions in Africa.    p 
 p Native to East and Central Africa, the Blue Monkey is a member of the guenon genus, wildly regarded as the most beautiful genus of mammals. You can find the Blue Monkey in the African exhibit located in the Tropics.  p 
 p The blue poison dart frog is a colorful member of a group of amphibians known for their powerful skin toxins once used by Amazonian natives to tip their arrows for hunting. You can find our poison dart frogs in the Discovery Barn.  p 
 p Chestnut red in color and faintly striped in white, and with spiraled horns, these large forest antelope are among the most beautiful hooved animals. Near-Threatened by poaching and illegal trapping for bush meat and their hides, these iconic forest antelope are nearly gone from their eastern range. You can find the Bongo near the gorillas in the African Forest section of the Zoo.  p 
 p The Orangutan Cam will be offline until the spring, when the orangutans will be given access to their outdoor exhibit. One of two subspecies of orangutan, Bornean Orangutans are found natively on the island of Borneo. Frugivores, their diet includes over 400 types of fruit in the wild and they are important movers of seeds, […]  p 
 p The Burmese python is the second largest living species of snake, capable of growing to 23 feet in length and weighing in at over 200 pounds. You can find our Burmese python in the Snakes exhibit.  p 
 p Instantly recognizable by their playful antics, barking vocalizations and adorable ears, California sea lions are highly intelligent pinnipeds.  You can find our six sea lions near the front of the Zoo and watch our Sea Lion Splash show daily.  p 
 p The caracal is a small to medium sized wild cat native to the grasslands of Africa, Arabia and Asia. These leaping cats are known to snatch flying birds out of the air. You can find our caracal near the lions in Africa.  p 
 p Hours  p 
 p Location  p 
 p Contact  p 
