 p 
            We use cookies to improve your experience of this website. To find out more information about our cookies, please see our  a href="http:  www.belfastzoo.co.uk about-us Cookies.aspx" cookies policy  a .
             input name="ctl00$AETag1$ctl00$ctl00$btnContinue" type="button" id="ctl00_AETag1_ctl00_ctl00_btnContinue" value="Continue" onclick="setCookieVal();" 
          p 
 p  strong Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris  strong   p 
 p Capybara are the largest rodents in the world and resemble a giant guinea pig.  p 
 p The capybara is a semi-aquatic mammal, found on Central and South American riverbacks, beside ponds and in marshes. When the capybara swims, its eyes, ears and nostrils are positioned just above the water to help with vision and breathing in the water. This unusual mammal can even dive underwater and stay there for up to five minutes.  p 
 p These rodents live in family groups of 10 to 40. They are incredibly vocal animals and communicate using barks, whistles, huffs and purrs. If one animal feels threatened, the whole group barks until danger has passed.  p 
 p On 28 October 2016 two capybara babies, Diego and Natalia, joined us. In April 2018, Capybara twins were born to mother, Ola and father Chester. We asked you to name the twins and they were named Tula and Cuzco, to highlight their South American heritage.  p 
 p We are now home to 13 capybaras and they live with some of our other South American species; the giant anteater and the Darwin’s rhea.  p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong  br Grasslands and near water  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong  - Herbivore br Capybara mainly eat grasses and aquatic plants. They also eat fruit and tree bark.  p 
 p  strong Size   strong  br Adult capybara can grow up to 130 centimetres and weigh up to 65 kilograms.  p 
 p  strong Location  strong   br Capybara are found in South America, near to water.  p 
 p  strong Conservation status  strong   br The IUCN believes the capybara is not yet in danger of extinction.  p 
 p  strong Threats  strong  br The leather from a capybara’s skin is very popular in South America. In some places the capybara population has been destroyed for this trade. They are also hunted for their meat.  p 
 p  strong Current population  strong   br Capybaras are still very common. There is insufficient data to know if the population is declining overall.  p 
 p  strong Zoo population  strong   br There are 960 capybaras in zoos across the world.  p 
 p  strong IUCN  strong  - International Union for Conservation of Nature  p 
 p  strong News  strong   p 
 p Belfast Zoo  br 
Antrim Road,  br 
Belfast, BT36 7PN  p 
 p Tel:  strong 028 9077 6277   strong  br 
Email:  a href="mailto:info@belfastzoo.co.uk"  strong info@belfastzoo.co.uk  strong   a   p 
 p  strong  a href="http:  www.belfastzoo.co.uk contact-us media media.aspx" Media  a    strong   p 
 p ©Belfast City Council  p 
