 p The Department of Health  p 
 p class="strapline" Information for consumers  p 
 p class="publish-date"  i class="icon-calendar"   i  Page last updated: 03 December 2013  p 
 p Rabies virus and ABLV belong to a group of viruses called lyssaviruses. All lyssaviruses cause a similar illness known as rabies, which affects the central nervous system and is usually fatal.  p 
 p Rabies virus does not currently occur in land dwelling animals in Australia but ABLV does occur in bats in Australia, and can be transmitted from bats to humans and to other animals. Only three cases of human infection with ABLV have been recorded since the virus was first identified in 1996. All cases were in Queensland and all died as a result of ABLV infection after being bitten or scratched by bats.  p 
 p Rabies is most frequently associated with canid animals; dogs, foxes and related species, but monkeys can also be infected, and an outbreak has recently been reported amongst ferret badgers in Taiwan.  p 
 p There is a wide variability in the time it takes for symptoms to appear following exposure to an infected animal (from several days to several years) and treatment with post-exposure prophylaxis comprising rabies immunoglobulin (RIg) and or vaccine can prevent the illness.  p 
 p Once symptoms begin, rabies and ABLV are almost invariably fatal. The early symptoms of rabies are flu-like, including headache, fever and fatigue. The illness progresses rapidly to paralysis, delirium, convulsions and death, usually  within a week or two of the onset of illness.  p 
 p Rabies virus and other lyssaviruses (including ABLV) are spread from infected animals to people through bites or scratches, or by being exposed to infected animals’ saliva through the eyes, nose or mouth. Only mammals can be infected. Dogs are the main source of human cases of rabies. Other animals that transmit rabies include bats, foxes, cats, raccoons, skunks, jackals and mongooses. Monkeys may be able to transmit rabies, but the risk is low. Rabies has also been spread through organ transplantation.  p 
 p In Australia, evidence of ABLV infection has been found in various species of flying foxes fruit bats and insect-eating microbats. It is assumed that any bat in Australia could potentially carry ABLV. The behaviour or appearance of a bat is not a readily interpreted guide as to whether it is carrying the virus.  p 
 p Contact or exposures to bat or other animal faeces, urine or blood do not pose a risk of exposure to lyssaviruses, and nor do living, playing or walking near bat roosting areas.  p 
 p People who handle bats in Australia or overseas, and people who come into contact with wild or domestic land dwelling mammals (especially dogs, cats and monkeys) in a country where there is a rabies virus risk, are at increased risk of rabies.  p 
 p The best protection against being exposed to rabies or other lyssaviruses (including ABLV) is to avoid handling any bat in Australia or overseas, or any wild or domestic land dwelling mammal in a country where there is a rabies virus risk:  p 
 p If you intend to work in or travel to a country or countries where there is a rabies virus risk, or if you are likely to come into contact with bats in Australia, you should discuss the need for vaccination with your doctor.  p 
 p If you are bitten or scratched by a bat anywhere in the world or by a land dwelling mammal overseas, you should:  p 
 p If you may have been exposed to rabies or ABLV and have not been vaccinated previously, you will require an injection of RIg as soon as possible and a series of rabies vaccine injections. RIg is a preparation containing antibodies from people who have previously been vaccinated. As much as possible of the required RIg dose is injected into the wound, and the remainder in a muscle elsewhere in the body. You will require two booster doses of vaccine even if you have previously been vaccinated.  p 
 p RIg and rabies vaccine are in short supply globally. The number of Australians potentially exposed both at home and overseas that require treatment has increased markedly in recent years, creating the need to ration limited supplies from time to time when demand  exceeds supply.  p 
 p It is important to reduce the number of potential exposures to avoid the risk of infection, and to ensure that there are sufficient supplies of RIg to treat everyone who needs it. More than half of all exposures overseas occur in the tourist destination Bali where Australians frequently travel. Bites or scratches from monkeys are a low risk for disease transmission, but comprise nearly 50% of all potential exposures of Australians that require treatment with RIg. Australians travelling to Bali are frequently exposed to monkey bites and scratches. Exposures involving bats, dogs and cats occur less frequently but are considered a higher risk for transmitting the disease.  p 
 p Diagnosis requires confirmation by laboratory tests for the presence of lyssaviruses.  p 
 p There is no available treatment for rabies once symptoms have started.  p 
 p Public health units in the states and territories will help arrange vaccination following exposure and rabies immunoglobulin where required. Public health unit staff will investigate the likely source and the circumstances of the exposure and determine whether others may be at risk of infection.  p 
 p Doctors should contact their local public health unit for advice on people who may have been exposed. Hospitals and laboratories will notify cases of rabies to the local public health unit.  p 
 p The rabies and ABLV Series of National Guidelines document developed by the Communicable Diseases Network of Australia provides information guidance for health  professionals in responding to possible exposures to rabies ABLV, and is available from  a href="http:  www.health.gov.au internet main publishing.nsf Content cdna-song-abvl-rabies.htm" The rabies and ABLV Series of National Guidelines  a  (http:  www.health.gov.au internet main publishing.nsf Content cdna-song-abvl-rabies.htm).  p 
 p The Australian Immunisation Handbook provides further information on vaccine and RIg. For more information visit  a href="http:  www.immunise.health.gov.au internet immunise publishing.nsf Content Handbook10-home" The Australian Immunisation Handbook  a  (http:  www.immunise.health.gov.au internet immunise publishing.nsf Content Handbook10-home).  p 
 p For further information, please contact your local doctor or nearest public health unit.  p 
 p  br    p 
 p class="help-block" Comments will be used to improve web content and will  strong not  strong  be responded to.  p 
 p class="help-block" This form uses a  acronym title="Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart" CAPTCHA  acronym  to ensure that it is submitted by a person, instead of a machine or automated software.  p 
 p Thank you for taking the time to provide feedback. It will be used to make improvements to this website.  p 
 p class="small-print" © Commonwealth of Australia br ABN: 83 605 426 759  p 
