 p Follow us  p 
 p Follow us  p 
 p 30 January 2014  p 
 p Posted by: 
	UAR news team  p 
 p Category: 
				 a href="http:  www.understandinganimalresearch.org.uk news animal-welfare-alternatives " Animal welfare &amp; alternatives  a 
	  p 
 p  strong  img src=" files 9614 1172 4064 bat.jpg" alt="bat.jpg" width="210" height="139" The Bat  strong  br  br  span by Theodore Roethke  span  br  br  span    span  br  span    span  br  span By day the bat is cousin to the mouse.  span  br  br  span He likes the attic of an aging house.  span  br  br  br  br  span His fingers make a hat about his head.  span  br  br  span His pulse beat so slow we think him dead.  span  br  br  br  br  span He loops in crazy figures half the night.  span  br  br  span Among the trees that face the corner light.  span  br  br  br  br  span But when he brushes up against a screen,  span  br  br  span We are afraid of what our eyes have seen:  span  br  br  br  br  span For something is amiss or out of place  span  br  br  span When mice with wings can wear a human face.  span  br  br  span    span  br  span Unusually for a report about wildlife conservation, a trans-European survey of hibernating bats is full of good  span  span    span  span news with the majority of the species surveyed showing population increases.  span  br  br  span The  span  span    span  span  a href="http:  www.eea.europa.eu publications european-bat-population-trends-2013" target="_blank" EEA report on bats  a   span  span    span  span is the most comprehensive study yet made of European bat population trends,  span  span    span  span studying 16 of the 45 bat species found across the continent. The study is the first to compile data from ten  span  span    span  span existing monitoring schemes in nine countries, building a prototype European-scale indicator of bat population  span  span    span  span trends. Surveyors counted and catalogued bats hibernating at 6 000 sites in nine different countries. Overall  span  span    span  span these species appear to have increased by 43 % at hibernation sites between 1993 and 2011, with a relatively  span  span    span  span stable trend since 2003.  span  br  br  span European bat populations had previously declined significantly, particularly during the second half of the 20th  span  span    span  span century, largely due to intensifying agriculture, changes in land use, intentional killing and destruction of  span  span    span  span roosts. Bat numbers have also fallen as their habitats have shrunk, fragmented and degraded. Additionally,  span  span    span  span they have been poisoned by roof timber treatment by toxic chemicals such as dieldrin.  span  br  br  span Bats tend to be long-lived animals with a slow rate of reproduction, so environmental or human pressures can  span  span    span  span cause populations to decline very rapidly, and they tend to recover slowly. For these reasons bats should still  span  span    span  span be considered vulnerable with current populations much smaller than they were before they declined.  span   p 
 p  span IMAGE:   span  span Barbastellus barbastellus  span  span    span  span Hugh Clark Bat  span  span  Conservation Trust  span   p 
 p  span  span Journal:   span  span  a href="http:  www.eea.europa.eu publications european-bat-population-trends-2013" target="_blank" http:  www.eea.europa.eu publications european-bat-population-trends-2013  a   span   span   p 
 p 30 January 2014  p 
 p class="last-edit" Last edited: 30 September 2014 09:39  p 
 p We cover all aspects of animal research with snapshots of biomedical advances from scientific journals, staff blogs and video links.  p 
 p class="latest-articles"  a href=" news " Latest articles  a   p 
 p class="latest-articles"  a title="News" href=" news " Latest articles  a   p 
 p  a title="Subscribe" href=" subscribe " Find out about our newsletter  a   p 
 p id="ftr-copyright" © Copyright 2019 br Understanding Animal Research  p 
