 p The activities implemented by the Biosecurity &amp; Trade Support (BATS) Team are based on the SPC Land Resources Division Strategic Plan (2009-2010) Objective number 3 on improved biosecurity and increased trade in agriculture and forestry products.  p 
 p  strong Objective 3.1: National capacity to comply with international and other relevant standards strengthened:  strong   p 
 p To facilitate trade in agricultural and forestry products, PICTs must meet a variety of international sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) and food safety standards. Biosecurity &amp; Trade Facilitation plays a crucial role in assisting countries to comply with international standards through training and capacity building to enhance PICTs ability to take advantage of trading opportunities  p 
 p The BATS group provides technical services to the PICTs in the following areas:  p 
 p  strong Objective 3.2: National capacity to increase domestic and export trade developed and strengthened:  strong   p 
 p Increasing international trade in agricultural and forestry products relies on obtaining market access approvals from importing countries. BATS has been working to build capacity of PICTs to complete market access requests as part of the training provided by its Import and Export Technology Centre (IMPEXTEK). These activities are vital if PICTs are to realize the benefits of international trading opportunities.  p 
 p The BATS group achieves the above objective by assisting PICTs in the following activities by assisting PICTs  p 
 p  strong Objective 3.3: Sustainable and viable post-harvest technologies developed and promoted:  strong   p 
 p Post harvest handling and value-adding methods are important to meeting the quality requirement of the market and the quarantine requirements of importing countries. The small economies of PICTs preclude competing on cost grounds wit may other competitors, but the development of innovative post-harvest technologies and value adding methods can assist countries in developing niche products where they have comparative advantages.  p 
 p BATF continue to support research activities to develop and evaluate appropriate post-harvest technologies by  p 
 p  strong Output 3.4: Improved information available on plant and animal health status  strong   p 
 p Accurate information on plant and animal pest status is a precondition for trading in agricultural and forestry products. The Pacific Island Pest List Database (PIPLD) provides support for PICTs wanting to access overseas markets and maintain existing market access. These regional databases will further enhanced by BATF direct participation on the various global compendia produced by the Commonwealth Agricultural Bureau International (CABI)  p 
 p Trade has an important role to play in supporting economic growth in PICTs with trade in agricultural and forestry products. It must be supported by effective biosecurity support services to enable PICTs to submit market access requests based on valid scientific evidence.  p 
 p BATS supports the capacity of PICTs  p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
