 p Thanks to widespread pet vaccinations, effective post-exposure treatment and the relative rarity of undetected bites by rabid animals, the number of human deaths from rabies in the United States caused has declined to an average of only one or two per year—far less than the number of human fatalities caused by lightning strikes. But this doesn't mean you shouldn't take precautions to protect yourself, your family and your pets. The best ways to guard against rabies:   p 
 p Rabies (Lyssavirus) is an infectious disease that affects the central nervous system in mammals. It's transmitted through the saliva a few days before death when the animal "sheds" the virus. Rabies is not transmitted through the blood, urine or feces of an infected animal, nor is it spread airborne through the open environment. Because it affects the nervous system, most rabid animals behave abnormally.  p 
 p In the "furious" form, wild animals may appear to be agitated, bite or snap at imaginary and real objects and drool excessively. In the "dumb" form, wild animals may appear tame and seem to have no fear of humans.  p 
 p There are other signs, such as the animal appearing drunk or excessively wobbly, circling, seeming partially paralyzed, acting disorientated or mutilating itself. However, most of these signs can also be indicative of other diseases like distemper or lead poisoning. There are few behavioral signs that are telltale of rabies alone.  p 
 p If a typically nocturnal animal, such as a  a href=" resources raccoons-and-public-health" raccoon  a  or  a href=" resources what-do-about-skunks" skunk  a , is active during the day and exhibiting abnormal behavior, you should seek advice from your local animal control, animal organization,  a href=" resources how-find-wildlife-rehabilitator" wildlife rehabilitator  a  or  a href="http:  www.fws.gov offices statelinks.html" target="_blank" state wildlife agency  a .  p 
 p Any warm-blooded mammal can carry or contract rabies, but the primary carriers in North America are  a href=" animals raccoons" raccoons  a ,  a href=" animals skunks" skunks  a ,  a href=" animals bats" bats  a ,  a href=" animals foxes" foxes  a  and  a href=" animals coyotes" coyotes  a . Thanks to an increase in pet vaccinations, wildlife now account for more than 90 percent of all reported rabies cases.  p 
 p Rabies tends to be more common in different species in different places, but is certainly not limited to these trends:  p 
 p Federal and state wildlife officials have been vaccinating wildlife in many regions over the past two decades. They distribute vaccine-laden baits that the target animals eat and thereby vaccinate themselves. Right now, oral rabies vaccination of wildlife focuses on halting the spread of specific types of rabies in targeted carrier species. It's hoped that this tool can also shrink the disease's range.  p 
 p Given all the media attention that rabies receives, it may be somewhat surprising to learn that very few people die from rabies nationwide each year. There are fewer than three fatalities each year nationwide, on average.  p 
 p People who contracted rabies in the United States were mostly infected by a bat. Most didn’t even know they were bitten. Some may have been sleeping when bitten. Others  a href=" resources theres-bat-my-house" handled a bat bare-handed  a  without realizing they’d been potentially exposed to rabies. But  a href=" resources bats-rabies-and-public-health" don’t panic over every bat sighting  a . Less than one-half of one percent of all bats in North America carries rabies.  p 
 p Although  a href=" resources raccoons-and-public-health" raccoons  a  suffer from rabies more than any other mammal in the United States (about 35 percent of all animal rabies cases), only one human death from the  a href=" resources raccoons-and-public-health" raccoon  a  strain of rabies has been recorded in the United States.  p 
 p Despite the long odds of contracting rabies, the remote possibility of infection exists and should not be taken lightly:  p 
 p Since its launch in 2007,  a href="http:  rabiesalliance.org world-rabies-day " target="_blank" World Rabies Day  a  has helped educate over 200 million people and vaccinated millions of dogs through events in 150 countries. Globally, World Rabies Day is important because most deaths from rabies occur in countries with inadequate public health resources and limited access to preventive treatment. Since 1982, the World Health Organization has recommended vaccination—rather than removal—of free-roaming dogs to control rabies.  p 
 p class="text-disclosure"  a href="https:  uplandsoftware.com mobile-messaging terms-and-conditions " target="_blank" Message and data rates  a  may apply. Reply STOP to opt out.  p 
 p © 2019 The Humane Society of the United States  a href=" privacy-policy" Privacy Policy &amp; Terms  a   p 
 p The Humane Society of the United States is registered as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions to the HSUS are tax deductible to the extent permitted by law. The HSUS's tax identification number is 53-0225390.  p 
 p Right now, animals like me are suffering in puppy mills, research labs and factory farms. Join the fight to protect us.  p 
 p Right now, animals like me are suffering in puppy mills, research labs and factory farms. Join the fight to protect us.  p 
