 p Rabies is an acute, progressive, and fatal viral infection of the central nervous system that is vaccine preventable. Transmission is predominantly via saliva through the bite of rabid animals worldwide. Almost all rabies deaths are due to dog or bat bites. Tens of millions of human exposures and tens of thousands of deaths may occur each year due to rabies.  p 
 p Rabies is found on all continents except Antarctica. Canine rabies is most prevalent in Africa and Asia, has limited distribution in parts of Central and South America, and is absent from Australia, Japan, Western Europe, and many small island countries. Bat rabies occurs worldwide, except in New Zealand. In the U.S., bats that feed on insects (notably silver-haired bats) are the most common cause of human rabies cases. In Central and South America, rabies transmitted by vampire bats causes significant death in cattle and occasional outbreaks in humans. Rabies virus of this type can also be found in cats, foxes, raccoons, and skunks in the U.S. and in jackals and mongooses in southern Africa, the Caribbean islands, and Central America.  p 
 p Rabies is transmitted to humans via saliva through penetrating bites of rabid animals that may not exhibit features of the disease (especially carnivores and bats). Rabies virus is introduced through intact skin (e.g., by a bite or scratch) or licked onto preexisting nonintact skin or mucous tissue, where it then travels through the nerves to the brain. Dogs and bats are the most important vectors because they bite readily and may have daily contact with humans. Bat rabies is transmitted by bat bites or scratches (which may not be noticed) or, more rarely, by inhalation of aerosolized bat saliva in caves where numerous bats congregate. However, all mammals are susceptible to rabies, including but not limited to coyotes, foxes, jackals, mongooses, racoons, skunks, and wolves.  Monkeys are a potential but uncertain source; nevertheless, monkey bites must be treated as a potential rabies risk. Human-to-human transmission or human rabies due to rodent bites have never been reported.  p 
 p Risk is low for travelers and, although rare, rabies is a high-impact disease. A bite, scratch, or lick from a dog or other mammal in a rabies-endemic country or a bite or scratch from a bat anywhere in the world presents a risk of rabies to an unvaccinated traveler.  p 
 p Risk of developing rabies increases with severity (number and depth) of bites and proximity to the head. Timely vaccination is protective when given before and or after exposure, to neutralize the rabies virus before it reaches the brain. Bites to the face carry an especially high risk and require more urgent initiation of treatment following exposure.  p 
 p Symptoms most commonly develop 20 to 60 days (but could occur 5 days to several years) after exposure (depending on the severity and site of the bite) and include tingling (at the site of the bite) followed by fever, headache, muscle aches, anxiety, depression, irritability, and sometimes respiratory or gastrointestinal symptoms.   p 
 p Patients with furious rabies, which is common after dog bites, are terrified of water and develop severe spasms of the breathing muscles, which may lead to suffocation, generalized convulsions, coma, and death (in approximately 5 days). Patients with paralytic rabies, which is common after bat bites, become lethargic, dribble saliva, and develop loss of muscle tone and paralysis, progressing to coma and death in about 13 days.  p 
 p A traveler who has been bitten, scratched, or licked by a mammal in a rabies-endemic country or by a bat anywhere in the world should urgently seek medical advice on receiving a postexposure vaccination series. Bites to the face require urgent medical attention. Any potential rabies exposure, even from months earlier, warrants immediate initiation of appropriate medical evaluation. National, state, or local health authorities should be consulted by the traveler or medical provider for recent information on rabies risk according to the particular exposure.  p 
 p Preventive measures include the following:  p 
 p The following measures are recommended:  p 
 p Rabies vaccine can be given before travel for travelers going to any country with rabies (especially canine rabies) to simplify the postexposure vaccine schedule and eliminate the need for rabies immune globulin (RIG), which is often very difficult to obtain abroad.  p 
 p Preexposure exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is recommended for:  p 
 p Vaccine without RIG is given to persons who have previously completed a primary series at any time.  p 
 p Vaccine with RIG is given to persons without a complete PrEP series (3 or more doses of rabies vaccine). Human rabies immune globulin (HRIG) provides rapid, passive, short-term immunity.  p 
 p Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP), with or without RIG (depending on PrEP status; see below), is recommended for:  p 
 p The most common vaccine side effects are mild local reactions, which can include pain, redness, swelling, or itching at the injection site. Fever, headache, dizziness, abdominal pain, and gastrointestinal symptoms may also occur. Neurological complications have been reported, albeit rarely.  p 
 p Persons with underlying medical conditions or who have concerns about the vaccines should speak to their health care provider before vaccine administration.  p 
 p Preexposure vaccination consists of 3 doses administered intramuscularly, 1 each on days 0, 7, and 28 (the third dose may be given as early as day 21 if time is limited).   p 
 p Duration of vaccine protection is limited to the time interval until any subsequent rabies exposure, at which time postexposure vaccination will be required. Regular boosters are recommended only for persons at continuous or frequent risk (e.g., occupational exposures to rabies virus, animals, or bats), but not for travelers.  p 
 p Postexposure vaccination, with or without RIG (depending on preexposure vaccination status; see below), is recommended for:  p 
 p Preexposure and postexposure regimens can also be administered intradermally. Returned travelers may have been started on one of these regimens in the exposure country, but public health agencies in the traveler's home country may not recognize these regimens and may recommend restarting a full standard postexposure series.  p 
