 p 
                                    28-09-17 
                                  p 
 p id="imagedescription" Image 1 1 : Europese vleermuis  p 
 p  strong Dr. Patrick Soentjes,   strong physician-in-chief at ITM strong :  strong  “Better safe than sorry. Rabies can be completely prevented, but thousands of people are killed every year in developing countries. In Belgium, the risk is limited to contact with bats. Fortunately, this is exceptional, but it does happen occasionally. Travelers traveling to Africa and Asia can be vaccinated preventively. Rapid intervention after a bite is also vital."  p 
 p Rabies is a fatal disease.  It is the result of an infection with the rabies virus, usually by a bite of a rabies-infected animal such as a dog. The disease claims more than 60,000 human lives every year, especially young children in Africa and Asia. Belgium has been rabies-free since 2001 after an extensive vaccination campaign among the fox population. There is a small chance of contracting rabies in our country when coming into contact with bats, however.  p 
 p The rabies virus occurs especially in dogs, bats, foxes and cats. Travelers can get it through a bite, scratch or lick of an infected animal. Once symptoms develop, the disease is always fatal. Persons who have been in contact with an infected animal have to be treated as soon as possible.  p 
 p Since the beginning of July 2017, ITM is the only center in Belgium that can administer the active antibodies (rabies immunoglobines), after a risk assessment by a doctor. In addition, any doctor may ask  ITM to make an assessment of the risk that his patient has run. In contrast with most vaccinations, immunoglobulins are administrated after exposure to the virus.  p 
 p Preventive vaccination offers partial protection against infection. ITM advises the vaccination treatment for people going on adventurous travels to Africa and Asia, or who frequently travel to these locations. The vaccine bolsters the immune system, but after a risky bite additional vaccination treatment is necessary, albeit to a lesser degree.  p 
 p Protecting oneself against rabies is quite an undertaking. It takes three doses on three different days (day 1, day 7 and day 28). ITM researches promising shorter schemes of one week or even a day. Shortened vaccination schemes would be a cheaper solution that can also be applied in developing countries, where the disease causes the largest number of casualties.  p 
 p Meer nieuws over  p 
 p PUBLIC HEALTH     BUITEN LAND  p 
 p class="art-desc" Our researchers contribute to predictive maps of areas where exotic mosquitoes are likely to settle in the future  p 
 p class="date" 05-03-19 - 00.00  p 
 p class="art-desc" The Board of Governors has appointed Dr Marc-Alain Widdowson as new Director of the Institute. Widdowson will take over from Prof Dr Bruno Gryseels in August 2019.   p 
 p class="date" 28-02-19 - 00.00  p 
 p class="art-desc" Ralph Huits (ITM) investigated chikungunya and Zika for his PhD thesis at KU Leuven  p 
 p class="date" 19-02-19 - 00.00  p 
 p class="art-desc" ITM and the Flemish Government will develop a broader range of health information for the evermore travelling Belgians.  p 
 p class="date" 29-01-19 - 00.00  p 
 p class="date" 22-01-19 - 00.00  p 
