 p  strong Introduction:  strong  The origin of the  name hippopotamus  em (Hippopotamus amphibius)   em comes  from the Greek 'water or river horse'.  This comes as no surprise as  they are strong and fast swimmers and will attack when wounded  or agitated.  They are characterized by their huge mass; short,  barrel-shaped body, smooth naked skin and short, stout legs.   p 
 p The hippo is the most dangerous animal  in Africa and is responsible for more human fatalities and injuries  in the wild than any other mammal.  They are usually found in  schools   pods   bloats of 5 to 20, but often congregate in larger  numbers.  Adult bulls will aggressively defend their territory and  most males have scars from previous conflicts.  Small boats and in  some cases mokoro's, have been overturned or badly damaged as a  result of hippo attacks.  They are in the main protecting their  young, but your poler on a  a href="http:  www.botswana-travel.org transport mokoro.html" target="_blank" mokoro  a  trip on the Chobe or  a href=" travel rivers zambezi-river.html" Zambezi Rivers  a  will steer clear of hippo, especially if they are with their  families.  p 
 p  strong Distribution:  strong  As  a href=" index.html" Namibia  a  is  predominantly a desert country, hippo are uncommon and can only be  found in the rivers of the extreme north-east of the country in the  a href=" travel namibia kavango.htm" Kavango  a  and  a href=" travel namibia caprivi.htm" Caprivi  a  regions.  p 
 p  strong Diet:  strong  Hippo are grazers and  forages for grass on the river bank at night.  Buffalo and couch  grasses are a particular favourite.  A full feed is about 130kg of  green grass, but not all of this is digested in 1 day.  Some remains  in the stomach for the next night's binge.  p 
 p  strong Colouring:  strong  The body is a  greyish-black with a pink tinge.  p 
 p  strong Breeding:  strong  Cows give birth to a  single young in shallow waters in dense reedbeds which has a mass of  around 30kg.  Gestation periods average 240 days.  Calves are born in  the water and can swim before walking.  p 
 p  strong Size:  strong  Hippo's can weigh up to  2,500kg and stand about 1.5m at the shoulder.  They have a head and  body length of up to 3.7m.  The females are lighter and smaller and  calves lighter coloured than adults.  p 
 p align="center"  a href=" travel namibia wildlife.htm" Wildlife Namibia  a   p 
 p On the Kwando River, perfectly situated to visit the Nkasa Rupara (Mamili) &amp; Mudumu Reserves  p 
 p Just outside the town of Katima Mulilo lies this small river front lodge. The accommodation is rustic with open fronted bungalows overlooking the river.  p 
 p Explore the Chobe &amp; Zambezi Rivers on an adventurous houseboat holiday. Certainly one of the most enjoyable and relaxing ways of exploring the waterways of this area  p 
 p Caprivi Mutoya Lodge offers an ideal base to day trip into some of the Zambezi Regions most well-known national parks and a famous world heritage site.  p 
 p Part of the Zambezi Queen collection these three smaller houseboats operate on the Chobe River " offer  a superb opportunity to view birds, mammals and scenery on a 2 or 3 night trip   p 
 p A rustic tented camp, built on raised decks overlooking the Chobe River and Chobe National Park.  p 
 p Overlooking the vast Chobe floodplain from its situation on the banks of the Chobe River in the east Caprivi this lodge has a lot to offer visitors  p 
 p Overlooking the Chobe River and Botswana's Chobe National Park, this boutique hotel offers an excellent opportunity to experience all the wildlife and activities the Chobe Region has to offer  p 
 p One of the best lodges in this area has accommodation in both traditional land based units as well as on two houseboats.  p 
 p A  four room private camp set inside the Nkasa Rupara National Park. A remote and private location in  Namibia's least visited hidden gems of a game park makes this a must visit lodge. The lodge can also be booked for exclusive use on a self catering basis  p 
 p This lodge is located at the only place in the world where four countries meet. It is a wonderful Chobe destination with eight luxury chalets.  p 
 p A more rustic and smaller alternative to the ever popular Lianshulu Lodge  p 
 p Situated in the Mudumu National Park this is one of the east Zambezi Region's most popular lodges  p 
 p Situated on an island in the Kwando river around 4km from the trans-Caprivi highway  p 
 p Located on the banks of the Kwando river in the heart of the Mashi Conservancy, within Bwabwata National Park. This is a sanctuary for more than 35  game species and upwards of 330 bird species. Animals move freely throughout the area which creates a mecca for wildlife viewing  p 
 p A popular and well appointed lodge near Kongola  p 
 p A wonderful lodge in an extremely remote location, this is a must for anyone wanting to get of the beaten track and experience Namibia at her best. Offers game viewing in the Nkasa Rupara (formerly Mamili) National Park and boat trips on the Linyanti River.  p 
 p A small luxurious houseboat, offers awesome game viewing, bird watching &amp; fishing experiences on the Chobe &amp; Zambezi Rivers  p 
 p in the Bwabwata National Park this is a perfect land and water camp with six luxury suites, each with private plunge pool  p 
 p Along the edge of the mighty Zambezi River, lies a bird-lover’s dream, this lodge is home to one of the largest colonies of Carmine Bee-eaters, that live along the banks of the majestic Zambezi.
  p 
 p A luxurious house boat on the Chobe River which offers 2 or 3 night cruises on the Chobe River.  An excellent way to celebrate a special occasion or just to relax in these splendid surroundings
  p 
 p In the far eastern Caprivi this lodge offers lots of water based activities on both the Chobe &amp; Zambezi Rivers  p 
 p align="center"  a href=" travel lodging namibia_self_catering.html" Self Catering Accommodation in Namibia  a   p 
 p 
 Cardboard Box Travel Shop - Namibia - Tel: ++ 264 61 256580 - Fax: ++ 264 61 256581 -  a href="mailto:info@namibian.org" info@namibian.org  a  br This website and its content is copyright of the Cardboard Box Travel Shop  © Cardboard Box Travel Shop 1998 -  script 
 !--
var year=new Date();
year=year.getYear();
if (year 1900) year+=1900;
document.write(year);
  -- 
  script   p 
 p    p 
