 p class="copyright" 
      This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      All market data delayed 20 minutes.
      p 
 p 
          A hippo opens its mouth at the Le Cornelle Animal Park near Milan, Italy.
           span (AP Photo Antonio Calanni)  span   p 
 p class="speakable" It isn't only elephants that are suffering from humans' insatiable thirst for ivory. A new study notes hippopotamuses, already predicted by some to disappear within 100 years, may be dying at unexpected rates to fuel the trade of ivory ornaments made from hippo teeth.  p 
 p class="speakable" Since 1975, 1.7 million pounds of hippo teeth have been traded around the world, with 90% of that trade passing through Hong Kong,  a href="https:  phys.org news 2017-10-rampant-consumption-hippo-teeth-combined.html" target="_blank" according to  a  researchers at the University of Hong Kong.  p 
 p Of that 90%, 75% has come from Uganda and Tanzania. Like Hong Kong, both African countries report their legal trade volumes to CITES, an organization that monitors trade in threatened species.  p 
 p What irks researchers, however, is that the reported volumes don't add up. CITES data shows Hong Kong has actually received more hippo teeth from Tanzania since 1980 than Tanzania claims it exported, and less hippo teeth from Uganda since 1991 than Uganda claims it sent, notes the study in the  a href="http:  onlinelibrary.wiley.com wol1 doi 10.1111 aje.12441 abstract" target="_blank"  i African Journal of Ecology  i   a .  p 
 p The result is 30,860 pounds of hippo teeth—the equivalent from 2,700 hippos, or 2% of the animal's global population—overlooked, reports  a href="https:  qz.com 1094454 hippos-are-being-pushed-towards-extinction-by-an-insatiable-demand-for-their-teeth " target="_blank" Quartz  a . "If authorities do not more diligently monitor the international trade in threatened species, those species could be exposed to unmanageable exploitation levels, which could lead to extinction," says study author Alexandra Andersson in a  a href="https:  phys.org news 2017-10-rampant-consumption-hippo-teeth-combined.html" release  a .  p 
 p "The fate of hippos—and a plethora of other species—could depend on it." (People are also getting ivory from …  a href="http:  www.newser.com story 247305 people-now-getting-ivory-fix-from-woolly-mammoths.html" target="_blank" woolly mammoths  a .)  p 
 p This article originally appeared on Newser:  a Hippos in Danger Because of Desire for Their Teeth  a   p 
 p class="copyright" This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2019 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.  p 
