 p style="color: #081e48;font-size: 24px;margin-bottom: 25px;"  strong Lufthansa Cargo ID  strong -eServices which will simplify your working day.  p 
 p style="color: #030d2e;font-size: 18px;line-height: 24px;margin-bottom: 25px;" With the Lufthansa Cargo ID you can access all the services you need. At any time and from anywhere, whether you are home or on the move.  p 
 p Imagine: A lioness needs to get from a zoo in France to a refuge in South Africa.   p 
 p Or, a large shipment of sensitive ornamental fish has to get from Indonesia to New York in good condition. In both cases, you need fast, individual and safe transportation. And in both cases, the answer is Live by Lufthansa Cargo.  p 
 p Live offers species-appropriate transportation of all animals that can be legally shipped. The handling and transportation processes of our Competence Team Animals are tailored for the special needs of each species and shipment. They fully comply with the strict requirements of the IATA Live Animals Regulations and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species at all times. That means live animals travel under the best possible conditions with Lufthansa Cargo.   p 
 p And that is not all: Our worldwide logistics network offers fast flight connections to some 300 destinations in more than 100 countries. We get your live cargo to their destination by the fastest route.   p 
 p With Live, your live cargo is well treated and cared for on the ground and in the air, around the clock. It’s a good feeling to know:  p 
 p For your animal shipment, you want maximum safety with minimum complexity. We provide this as a matter of course.  p 
 p Should your animal be transported as excess baggage rather than as airfreight? Please contact  a href="https:  www.lufthansa.com de en Travel-with-animals" target="_blank" Lufthansa Passenger Airlines  a .   p 
 p The Federal Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( a href="http:  www.bmel.de DE Tier HausUndZootiere Heimtiere _Texte HeimtiereEinreiseregelung.html" target="_blank" BMEL  a ) web site offers tips about entering the European Union with animals or get in touch with the  a href="https:  lhl.hessen.de tgsh tierstation" target="_blank" animal border inspection office  a  (available in German-language only) in Frankfurt.  p 
 p For the delivery of your animal shipment at Lufthansa Cargo you need a completed  a href=" documents 20184 35769 Shippers_Certificate_AVI_Form_686600.pdf 5f76dfd7-f25d-4336-ffa6-ce9e9c222709" target="_blank" Shipper’s Certificate  a .  p 
 p Additional useful information is available in our  a href=" documents 20184 509413 FAQ_Livetd_20161103.pdf 2ce55629-7a06-bfb6-1fc5-2747e9a42162" target="_blank" FAQ  a .  p 
 p  span The Lufthansa Cargo sales team near you is happy to answer general questions about Live.  span   p 
 p Handling by specially trained personnel.  p 
 p Species-appropriate care of animals throughout the journey.  p 
 p Fast transit times.  p 
 p Documentation of the transportation chain and proactive communication.  p 
 p Competence Team Animals - reliable service from a single source.  p 
 p For more than 30 years, we have provided fast, species-appropriate animal transport, and our global network provides the best conditions to do so. Throughout that time, we have been continuously improving our products and services. Whether a sport horse, the next generation of talent or a recreational horse, these animals require particularly sensitive treatment, which applies to loading and unloading at the airport, their stay in the transit area and during their time in the air. That is why we do everything in our power to ensure that your horses enjoy the best possible comfort during the entire journey. The exclusive Frankfurt Animal Lounge, our  a class="lcagLiveTdGATracking" data-lcaglivetdgatrackinglabel="20-N6007+Factsheet+Pferdecontainer_160425_ENG" href=" documents 20184 509413 Factsheet+Horse+Container+EN ee398b6e-4a90-4131-a90d-bc5b964c8cc2" new high-quality horse containers  a  and the advanced Boeing 777 freighters, which perfectly complement our proven MD-11F aircraft, represent the cutting edge of what we offer your four-legged friends. It is even possible to ensure the comfortable transport of several dozen show horses on just a single flight.  p 
 p Lufthansa Cargo is an official premium partner of the  a href="http:  www.pferd-aktuell.de" target="_blank" German Equestrian Federation  a .   p 
 p  a class="lcagLiveTdGATracking" data-lcaglivetdgatrackinglabel="LHC15080_Pferde_Flyer_en_20151001" href="https:  lufthansa-cargo.com documents 20184 35769 LHC15080_Pferde_Flyer_en_20151001_final.pdf 2a2a2e5e-0388-4da4-93ae-807b660b0bd0" target="_blank"  strong More about our offer for your horses can be found here.  strong   a   p 
 p We fly pets safely to all international destinations, including all favorite vacation hotspots. While pets are in transit at the Frankfurt Animal Lounge, our employees provide individual care and food to your four-legged friends, who are able to recover nicely from the first leg of their journey thanks to precautions taken to soundproof the facility and obstruct views into and out of it. We avoid unnecessary stress on animals by waiting to bring them to the aircraft until shortly before departure. When booked in advance, we also provide plastic kennels. Available in four different sizes, they are fitted with absorbent liners and ensure that animals receive enough fresh air.    p 
 p With Live td Premium, we offer additional exclusive services to ensure pet owners that their four-legged friends receive even greater personal care. We send you pictures of your beloved pet as soon as it has gotten comfortable in the extra spacious kennel* at our Animal Lounge in Frankfurt. In addition, a personal contact is available if you have any questions. We also make allowances for special requests in transit, including administering medications or providing special food. And last but not least, we provide a leaflet containing all of the important and useful tips for the special transport of pets in good time prior to the scheduled flight so owners can make preparations for the journey at their own pace and in peace. Live td Premium gives peace of mind to owners about the upcoming travels of their beloved pets. More information about Live td Premium can be found in this  a href=" documents 20184 509413 LHC15061_flyer_live_premium_20150528_en_nicht_druckbar.pdf dd0522a3-bb8a-47d4-bc9d-2cf99f9a464f" flyer  a .  p 
 p *depending on availability  p 
 p Our worldwide network offers ideal conditions for transporting ornamental fish. We are careful to maintain constant water temperatures, and veterinary inspections are carried out under black light to prevent shock reactions. In the event of unforeseen delays, we are able to provide an additional oxygen supply. Fragile fish get from point A to point B anywhere in the world, not just safely and quickly, but also without complications, because we take care of all transit handling for you.  p 
 p From albatross to zebra, we are the right partner for exotic animal shipments. For example, when endangered animals travel between zoos in species conservation programs. We take special care to make sure that hippos, tigers and other animals are not subjected to stress and that transit times are kept to a minimum. To ensure this, we have worked together with zoo associations around the world for many years.  p 
 p Maintaining a constant temperature is the top priority throughout the transport process. That is why storage in Frankfurt takes place in climate-controlled storage areas. Transportation to the aircraft also takes place under weather-protected conditions. In Frankfurt, day-old chicks are transported in temperature-controlled vehicles. Specially developed spacers are used for shipping day-old chicks. They ensure proper air circulation between individual shipping containers.  p 
 p Find more about the world's most modern animal station. Our animated infographic introduces you to the various processes at the Frankfurt Animal Lounge and its "hotel rooms" for all kind of animals.  p 
 p With a surface area of around 4,000 m², the Frankfurt Animal Lounge combines all services - handling, animal coordination and veterinarians - under one roof. Fifty employees and trained animal keepers ensure around-the-clock care. Special care was taken when designing Animal Lounge to make sure animals have the most comfortable stay possible. The entire station is equipped with a non-slip asphalt floor, which is more pleasant and more comfortable for animals and people than standard concrete. The entire loading area is weather-protected.  p 
 p The animal station is home to export, import and transit zones. All are physically separated from each other to avoid any contact between export and import animals. The individual zones can be divided into several sections to ensure that visual and acoustic separation of certain animals can be provided if necessary. Ornamental fish can be examined under black light and cared for by specialists in the event of medical emergencies.  p 
 p The Frankfurt Animal Lounge has a total of 42 large animal stalls with up to 28 square meters. Variable stalls can be flexibly divided up if necessary, such as for horses with foals. Eighteen individually controlled climatic chambers provide space for a wide variety of species. There are 39 small animal pens for dogs, cats and other small animals. Three separate quiet zones offer cats a place to relax. Four special aviaries are available for our feathered friends. We also have an additional washroom for grooms.  p 
 p The Animal Lounge of course meets the latest safety requirements. The entire building is video-monitored around the clock, and access is restricted to authorized personnel. That is because safety is a key element of our corporate philosophy, both in the air and on the ground.  p 
 p If your animals are transported to Frankfurt with Lufthansa Cargo (as Live td), please go directly to the Frankfurt Animal Lounge (entry via Tor 26). Here, you will receive all documents for veterinarian and customs clearance. The airport’s vets are also located in the Frankfurt Animal Lounge. The Customs Office is in building 451 (Lufthansa Cargo Center). If your animals are transported with an airline other than Lufthansa Cargo, please contact your airline in advance for documentary procedure. The Frankfurt Animal Lounge can only be used for animals transported as air cargo.   p 
 p If your animal is transported as excess baggage, please contact your airline. For Lufthansa passenger flights, information can be found on the airline’s  a href="https:  www.lufthansa.com de en Travel-with-animals" target="_blank" website  a .   p 
 p  strong style="font-family: inherit;"  a class="lcagLiveTdGATracking" data-lcaglivetdgatrackinglabel="AGBs_FAL_EN_20130901" href=" documents 20184 35769 AGBs_FAL_EN_20130901.pdf ddd986fb-c874-4ebe-ae29-6d5a25f8b1cf" style="font-family: inherit;" Download AGB Animal Lounge  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" documents 20184 35769 How+to+get+there_Animal+Lounge.pdf 467a2876-94a9-d1b3-ebb8-62e691c195df" target="_blank" Download How to get to the Animal Lounge  a   strong   p 
 p You are planning a Lufthansa Cargo flight for your animal and have questions concerning the flight or the Frankfurt Animal Lounge?  strong  a href=" contact-service-team" Please direct your question at us.  a   strong   p 
 p For questions on organization and cost for your animal's journey, please refer to the local animal forwarder, who assists you in the planning of the journey. An overview of animal forwarders can be found in our new  strong  a href="http:  animals.lufthansa-cargo.com en index.html" target="_blank" animal forwarder search.  a   strong   p 
 p Your animal is booked as Cargo on Lufthansa Cargo and you have questions?   p 
 p You can follow your  strong  a href="http:  lufthansa-cargo.com eservices etracking" target="_blank" shipment status  a   strong  using our tracking system.  p 
 p For further questions please  strong  a href=" contact-ops-team" target="_blank" contact us  a   strong .  p 
 p Your animal will be transported as excess baggage rather than as airfreight?   p 
 p  strong  a href="https:  www.lufthansa.com de en Travel-with-animals" target="_blank" Please contact Lufthansa Passenger Airlines  a   strong .  p 
 p class="bodytext"  * More combinations of these special products may be available on request. Please contact your customer service representative for individual clarification.   p 
