 p id="headerLogo"  a href=" zoo " title="Marwell Zoo"  span class="spider"  strong Marwell Zoo  strong   span   a   p 
 p An  a href=" zoo support adopt-an-animal" animal adoption  a  makes a unique and alternative gift.  p 
 p  i class="fa fa-map-marker redText"   i  In our indoor pools at the semi-aquatic mammal house or outside in our paddocks, where you can see us from Savannah Tracks. script type="text javascript" document.write(" br  a href=\"#\" onclick=\"return animalLocationMap('Pygmy hippopotamus',749,566);\" Show on map  i class='fa fa-angle-right'  \ i  \ a ");  script   p 
 p  strong Status  strong  Endangered  p 
 p  strong Size  strong  Head-body: 150-175cm; shoulder height: 75-100cm   p 
 p  strong Weight  strong  160-270kg   p 
 p  strong Gestation  strong  Approximately 6 months   p 
 p  strong Young  strong  1  p 
 p  strong Life span  strong  Up to 40 years   p 
 p Pygmy hippos are browsers and feed on a variety of vegetation, including leaves, aquatic plants, fallen fruit, roots and tubers. They use their strong, muscular lips instead of their teeth to tear vegetation.   p 
 p Pygmy hippos are found in Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone in West Africa. They live in heavily forested areas close to streams and swamps. They are mainly nocturnal and are thought to spend the day hidden in dense vegetation or swampy areas.   p 
 p Little is known about the breeding behaviour of pygmy hippos in the wild; the information we have comes from captive animals. Females give birth in shallow water or on land. Calves weigh about 5kg at birth. Usually one calf is born, but twins occur very occasionally. Mothers will leave their calves hidden while they forage for food. They start following their mother at around 3-5 months old.  The young are weaned by about 8 months of age but may stay with their mother until they are several years old.   p 
 p There is little information available about the predators of pygmy hippos, but potential predators include leopards and crocodiles. Young pygmy hippos may be preyed upon by a larger variety of predators, including African golden cats, African civets and African rock pythons.  p 
 p The main threat faced by pygmy hippos is habitat loss and fragmentation, as forests have been used for logging, farming, plantations and building settlements. They also face threats from hunting for their meat.   p 
 p Pygmy hippos are protected by law in all the countries they are present in and are on Appendix II of CITES, which means that trade in any parts of the animal is restricted. Most pygmy hippos live in protected areas, and all the countries in which they live have developed strategies which should help protect the hippos.  p 
 p The skin of pygmy hippos looks greasy. This is because their skin has special glands that secrete a substance called ‘blood sweat’, which acts as an antibiotic and sun cream.   p 
 p Pygmy hippos can close their ears and nostrils when they dive underwater.  p 
 p Pygmy hippos don’t swim. They actually move along the bottom of the water in a slow-motion gallop.  p 
 p Pygmy hippos mark the areas they travel along by spreading dung. They do this by rapidly wagging their tail while they poo!   p 
 p Check our  a href=" zoo tickets-experiences ticket-prices-and-offers" ticket prices  a  or...  p 
 p  a class="nextButton softFullWidth" href=" booking "  strong Book tickets span class="inline lt-hide"  online  span   strong   a   p 
 p id="footerStreetAddress" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org PostalAddress" 
															 span itemprop="name" Marwell Wildlife  span ,
															 span itemprop="addressLocality" Thompsons Lane, Winchester, Hampshire  span 
															 span itemprop="postalCode" SO21 1JH  span .  p 
 p id="footerCopyright" class="smallText" Marwell Wildlife is a registered charity, number 275433.
															 br 
															 a href="http:  www.redstation.com " target="_blank" Hosted by Redstation  a .
															 br class="f-hide" © 2017 Marwell Wildlife.
															 br class="f-hide" 
															 a href="http:  www.semantic.co.uk " target="_blank" Site designed by Semantic  a .
															 br class="f-hide" 
															 a href="https:  www.flickr.com groups marwellphotographiccontributors " target="_blank" Photographic Contributors  a .
														  p 
