 p Some of the areas near the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile  a ’s origin are home to tropical rainforests, and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com plant bamboo" bamboo  a  is among the trees and plants found there. Some species of bamboo are able to grow extremely fast, up to one foot or more daily.   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.britannica.com plant banana-plant" Banana plants  a  are found in the tropical rainforests upstream, near the origin of the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile  a . There is very little genetic diversity in domesticated banana plants, making them especially vulnerable to pests and diseases.  p 
 p Once common throughout the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  system, the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal hippopotamus-mammal-species" hippopotamus  a  is now found only in the swampy  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Al-Sudd" Al-Sudd  a  region of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place South-Sudan" South Sudan  a  and farther south. A male hippopotamus is typically about 3.5 meters (11.5 feet) long, 1.5 meters (5 feet) tall, and 3,200 kg (3.5 tons).    p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal lungfish" lungfish  a  is found as far upstream as  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Lake-Victoria" Lake Victoria  a . Unlike most species of fish, lungfish have either one or two lungs, which they use to breathe air.  p 
 p Three species of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal monitor-lizard" monitor lizards  a  can be found in the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  basin. They are among the largest lizards in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Africa" Africa  a , with some averaging around 1.8 meters (6 feet) in length once fully grown.  p 
 p The Nile crocodile can be found in most parts of the river.  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Crocodylidae" Crocodiles  a , in general, are the largest and heaviest reptiles in the world, and the Nile crocodile is one of the largest crocodilian species, reaching lengths of up to 6 meters (20 feet).   p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Nile-perch" Nile perch  a  is found in the lower  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  system. This freshwater fish can grow to be quite large, some weighing as much as 200 kg (440 lbs) and measuring 2 meters (6.6 feet) in length.  p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic papyrus-writing-material" papyrus  a  plant is found along the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a . Not only did the ancient Egyptians famously use the stem of the papyrus plant to make paper, they also used it to make sails, cloth, mats, and cords.   p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal softshell-turtle" softshell turtle  a , characterized by its flattened shell, can be found in the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  basin. The flattened shell is hydrodynamically efficient and contributes to the softshell turtle’s ability to swim rapidly.   p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal tigerfish" tigerfish  a  is found in the lower  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  system. It has daggerlike teeth that protrude when its mouth is closed, and it is known for being fierce, whether it is predator or prey.   p 
 p An invasive species in the Nile region, the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com plant water-hyacinth" water hyacinth  a  originated in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place South-America" South America  a . Once introduced into the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nile-River" Nile River  a  system, it spread rapidly, and it has threatened the stability of local fishing-based economies, hindered boat travel in infested areas, and interfered with the generation of hydroelectric power.    p 
