 p In this post we will look at the world of the zebra in the wild.   p 
 p In the process we will clarify what the reason is they have stripes as well as :  p 
 p We illustrate the facts with pictures and statistics wherever possible.  p 
 p Nobody knows for sure why these African animals have stripes.   p 
 p The purpose of the 
stripes has stimulated a good deal of discussion amongst wildlife 
enthusiasts.  p 
 p Conceivably the stripes could act as camouflage.   p 
 p Predators without 
color vision find them difficult to isolate when they are bunched up in 
groups.   p 
 p This theory is supported by the fact that you will very seldom spot lone zebras by themselves.   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13.6px;" They are  successfully hunted by lions, spotted hyenas, wild dogs, cheetah and leopards.  This means that  b if 
there is a camouflage effect  b  or a distortion of perspective it cannot be
 very effective.  span    p 
 p The problem with these theories is that their behavior does not fit what would be expected from a camouflaged animal.   p 
 p Firstly
 they prefer an open habitat with short grass making them conspicuous.   p 
 p 
In addition to this these African animals are quite noisy and active and
 they do not freeze in response to danger.  p 
 p An important pointer to the function of their 
stripes is their effect not on predators but on other zebras.   p 
 p It has 
been suggested that the stripes serve as visual cues and identification 
of each other.   p 
 p With each striping pattern unique to each individual, they can recognize one another by their stripes.   p 
 p Interestingly
 they seem to have some fascination with stripes.  p 
 p There are accounts that even black and 
white stripes painted on a flat surface will attract them in groups.   p 
 p The Burchell's zebra prefer open woodland, scrub and grassland.   p 
 p They will avoid dense vegetation. br   p 
 p They are very dependent on water and you will seldom see them more than 12 km from it.  p 
 p The Cape mountain specie prefers the mountainous areas of the Eastern and Western Cape in Southern Africa.  p 
 p These African animals have a  society that is based on small family groups of harems and bachelor herds.   p 
 p Stallions will fight viciously for control of the 
females.   p 
 p A
 dominant stallion controls a herd of up to 6 mares and their foals. 
  p 
 p The stallions active shepherding of unattached females forms these herds.   p 
 p The stallion heads the hierarchy, herding his harem with head 
held low and his ears laid back.   p 
 p Groups are bonded mutual grooming of the head, neck and shoulders by gently nibbling one another.   p 
 p When
 herd stallions meet they approach to within a few meters of each other.  p 
 p They will 
 stand with their heads up and then slowly approach with their heads 
down and ears cocked.   p 
 p As they meet they will:  p 
 p Males
 that do not hold breeding herds join up into bachelor herds.   p 
 p Bachelor 
males either live alone or with groups of other bachelors until they are
 old enough to challenge a breeding stallion.   p 
 p Young stallions can take over an established herd by defeating its controlling male.  p 
 p This however will require him to enter into a violent contest of kicking and biting.  p 
 p Stallions are unable to breed until they have gained control of a herd.   p 
 p There is a strict pecking order among the herd’s mares.  p 
 p 

  p 
 p This is 
established by fighting and maintained by threat gestures.   p 
 p The privileges of a 
being a high-ranking mare is that they get priority of access to dust 
baths, shade and other limited resources.   p 
 p The most 
common threat is a quick approach with the-  p 
 p They have hooves that feature
an odd number of toes.   p 
 p Like most 
ungulates the eyes sits on the sides of its head.  p 
 p This gives these African animals a wide field
 of view to be on their guard against predators.  b Ungulate  b  refers to any mammal with hooves.  p 
 p A hoof is an enlarged toenail. These hoofed animals  walk on tiptoe.  p 
 p These African animals have excellent eyesight.   p 
 p Because they are ungulates their eyes sits on the sides of its head.  p 
 p Lion and spotted hyenas are their most significant predators.  p 
 p If attacked the herd will bunch flee together.   p 
 p In groups each individual has a smaller chance of falling prey.   p 
 p The
 stripe camouflage may also assist during the defense by confusing the 
predators and causing them to hesitate.   p 
 p The mare with the youngest foal 
being most likely runs first with the foals running alongside their 
mothers.   p 
 p The main herd stallion may on occasion ward off the attackers with a
 defensive rearguard position.  p 
 p From this position it will kick and bite any predator
 that comes within range.   p 
 p In the Kruger National Park they 
provide 16% of lion kills and in the Savuti 29%.   p 
 p In the dry season of 
the Savuti they provide 80% of spotted hyena kills.   p 
 p They prefer short, green grass but will also eat coarse tall forage.  p 
 p They are  b unselective grazers  b .  p 
 p  This is because their efficient digestive system
 allows them to live on diets of lower nutritional quality.   p 
 p They
 feed mainly on green grasses but will also eat-  p 
 p When they feed you will notice that while some animals have their 
heads down grazing others will be standing up and looking around for 
predators.  p 
 p A herd stallion checks the reproductive condition of his mares by sniffing of their urine.   p 
 p The
 mares urinate more frequently as they come into heat and the male marks
 where they urinate.   p 
 p This is probably done as a deterrent to competing 
suitors.   p 
 p When a mare is on heat the mare presents to the stallion
 by standing with her hind legs splayed and her tail lifted to one side.
   p 
 p Mating takes only a few seconds and is repeated hourly for two days.   p 
 p A mare with a newborn foal is very aggressive towards her herd 
companions.   p 
 p A foal is able to run beside its mother within an hour of 
birth.   p 
 p A mare is extremely possessive and protective towards her 
own offspring and will spend a lot of time sniffing and licking it.   p 
 p Each
 mare recognizes her own foal by smell for the first few days, and then 
by sight by its stripe pattern.   p 
 p Foals eat grass after only three 
days but it is 11 months before they are weaned.   p 
 p Until they are about 
three and a half months old foals eat portions of the adults dung to 
pick up the bacteria they need to digest their food.   p 
 p Please share your feedback, favorite zebra facts and observations via the comments below.  p 
