 p We sent you SMS, for complete subscription please reply.  p 
 p Wonder of the Day  strong #852  strong   p 
 p class="rs_skip" 
					  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?category=science" SCIENCE  a  					  —  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?sub_category=life-science" Life Science  a  				  p 
 p Today’s Wonder of the Day was inspired by Isaac.  em Isaac Wonders  em , “ strong Why are zebras black and white?  strong ” Thanks for WONDERing with us, Isaac!  p 
 p class="intro" Although most people tend to think of the zebra as a white animal with black stripes, scientists have  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-discovered" title="find (something or someone) unexpectedly or in the course of a search" discovered  span   a  that the zebra is actually a black animal with white stripes. Much like a  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonder what-s-so-special-about-your-fingerprints" target="_blank" fingerprint  a , the stripes on a zebra are  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-unique" title="radically distinctive and without equal" unique  span   a . No two animals have the same  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-pattern" title="a repeated decorative design" pattern  span   a . But why do they have stripes at all? br   p 
 p Whether  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-roaming" title="to move or travel around without a plan; wander" roaming  span   a  around the zoo or running across the Serengeti, the zebra is an animal that sticks out. The zebra's black and white striped  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-pattern" title="a repeated decorative design" pattern  span   a  could not be more obvious. That might not be the case when it comes to a zebra's predators, however.  p 
 p In the wild, the zebra's main predator is the  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-big-do-cats-get " target="_blank" lion  a , an animal known to be  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-can-we-know-if-an-animal-is-color-blind " target="_blank" color blind  a . Scientists who study animals — called zoologists — believe that the zebra's  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-pattern" title="a repeated decorative design" pattern  span   a  is a sort of  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-do-you-hide-an-octopus " target="_blank" camouflage  a  that helps it  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-hide" title="to put or hold out of sight; keep from view" hide  span   a  from predators.  p 
 p Imagine that you can only see black, white and shades of gray. A solid-color dark horse standing in light-colored tall grass would be very obvious. A zebra's stripes, however,  a href="http:  upload.wikimedia.org wikipedia commons thumb f fb Zebra_camouflage.jpg 800px-Zebra_camouflage.jpg" target="_blank" help it   a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-blend" title="an occurrence of thorough mixing" blend  span   a  in with grasses and  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-brush" title="a dense growth of bushes" brush  span   a , making it much more difficult to  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonder do-animals-play-hide-and-seek" target="_blank" see  a .  p 
 p Some biologists also believe the zebra's stripes may be helpful when zebras run in a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-herd" title="a group of cattle or sheep or other domestic mammals all of the same kind that are herded by humans" herd  span   a . When a large number of zebras move together, their stripes could appear to be one large animal running. This illusion may  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-confuse" title="cause (someone) to become bewildered or perplexed" confuse  span   a  predators, making it difficult for them to pick out a single animal to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-attack" title="launch an attack or assault on" attack  span   a .   p 
 p Recent studies, however, have  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-cast" title="put or send forth" cast  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-doubt" title="to not know for sure; be uncertain about the truth of" doubt  span   a  upon the popular camouflage theory. Researchers have noted that many other  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-grazing" title="feeding (usu. on grasses) as in a meadow or pasture" grazing  span   a  animals in Africa have not  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-developed" title="being changed over time so as to be e.g. stronger or more complete or more useful" developed  span   a  similar striping to deter predators.  p 
 p Instead, researchers have  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-discovered" title="find (something or someone) unexpectedly or in the course of a search" discovered  span   a  that stripes may have two other purposes:  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-regulation" title="the act of regulating or controlling" regulation  span   a  of body  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-temperature" title="the degree of hotness or coldness of a body or environment (corresponding to its molecular activity)" temperature  span   a  and deterring biting flies. Scientists began studying these  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-possibilities" title="unspecified qualities of a promising nature; potential" possibilities  span   a  when they noticed that zebras in hotter areas tended to have more stripes.  p 
 p In a large study of African zebras, researchers found that zebra stripes correlated closely with  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-temperature" title="the degree of hotness or coldness of a body or environment (corresponding to its molecular activity)" temperature  span   a  and precipitation, not the prevalence of lions. This led them to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-doubt" title="to not know for sure; be uncertain about the truth of" doubt  span   a  the camouflage theory and look for other explanations.  p 
 p Although no hard conclusions can yet be drawn from these new studies, scientists now believe zebra stripes may help keep zebras cooler. Some scientists suggest that air moves more quickly over black stripes and less quickly over white stripes, causing air to swirl where the stripes meet and thereby cooling the zebra's skin.  p 
 p Other researchers believe zebras in hotter areas have more stripes to deter disease-carrying biting flies, such as tsetse flies and horseflies. Researchers have learned that biting flies, which prefer hot weather, don't like to land on striped surfaces. The  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-presence" title="the state of being present; current existence" presence  span   a  of more stripes in warmer areas could be a natural defense against these biting flies.   p 
 p class="thanks" We’d like to thank:  p 
 p 																			 span Maria  span , 																																				 span Reese  span , 																																				 span Abigail  span , and 																																				 span Ginny  span 																									 br  for contributing questions about today’s Wonder topic!
							  p 
 p class="keep-wondering" Keep WONDERing with us!  p 
 p If you’re coming to Wonderopolis tomorrow, you’d better bring a snack!  p 
 p Are you ready to learn more about zebras? Round up a friend or family member to join you on a safari through the following activities:  p 
 p class="thanks" We’d like to thank:  p 
 p 
																								 span Maria  span , 																																 span Reese  span , 																																 span Abigail  span  and 																																 span Ginny  span 																						 br  for contributing questions about today’s Wonder topic!
						  p 
 p class="keep-wondering" Keep WONDERing with us!  p 
 p WOWEE!!!! I can't believe this!  p 
 p It is so cool to read about all these fun fact passages!  p 
 p this was really poopy i knew all of the stuff that this article had.  p 
 p Wow! Sounds like you've already taken a Wonder Journey to learn about zebras before you discovered this Wonder - great job!   p 
 p Very interesting This Text Made Me Realize That Zebras Are pretty Awesome!☺☺  p 
 p That's what we love to hear, Sidney! Are zebras your new favorite animal? If you have another favorite animal, which animal is it?  p 
 p It is cool how when they are in a herd that it forms a different animal  p 
 p We think so, too! When zebras are in a herd, predators such lions can get confused because the herd would look like one large animal.  Can you think of other animals like zebras that stay close together in herds or "schools" to stay safe? Check out  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonder do-fish-swim-in-schools-in-the-summer" target="_blank" Wonder 286  a  to learn more!  p 
 p I thought zebras were white with black stripes  p 
 p I did too  p 
 p We did too!!  Mind. BLOWN!  p 
 p Wow zebras can blend in with grass very interesting!  p 
 p Lots of mind-blowing facts in this one.  How about scientists discovering they are a black animal with white stripes?  How can they tell? 😁  p 
 p Chameleons don't change color to blend with their surroundings. If they wanted camouflage, they'd stay shades of green and brown that they normally are. The color changing effect is due to cells called chromatiphors, and they help chameleons communicate. More realistically, they change colors based on their mood, and can't disguise themselves to match their background like shown in cartoons.  p 
 p Super smart answer, Jewelie! 👍 Did you know we had a Wonder about this?  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-do-chameleons-change-their-colors" target="_blank" Why Do Chameleons Change Color?  a   p 
 p YA why do zebras have stripes why cant they have spots or sqwigly lines.  p 
 p It's fun to Wonder about!  Did you like this Wonder of the Day, Abby?  p 
 p Hi WONDERopolis! This was a WONDERful topic WONDERopolis!  Keep on WONDERing!!  p 
 p 😂 Hey, that's OUR thing! Jk - we're not mad.  We could never get mad at Super Wonder Friend Chloe!  p 
 p i love zebras  p 
 p Awesome, Brixley!  It's so weird that they are striped.  Good to hear from you today!  Wonderopolis, out! 😃  p 
 p I know this sounds dumb--but I always thought zebras were donkeys painted white and black...
  p 
 p That's not dumb at all, Rin! Zebras and donkeys are closely related, so we can see why you'd think that. We're glad you learned something new with us! :)  p 
 p We thought it was really amazing how predators think the zebra is one giant animal. We still wonder if other animals, like an owl, see the zebra like one giant animal and if a lion will try to attack a herd.  p 
 p Thank you for sharing your thoughts, Mrs. Williams' Wonderful Wacky Fourth Grade! It sounds like you're having a pretty WONDER-filled day! :D  p 
 p what are baby zebra name's?  p 
 p Great question, zaniya! Baby zebras are called foals. We encourage you to keep learning about zebras by researching at your library and online! Thanks for WONDERing with us! :)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis! I think it's intriesting that all zebras don't have the same stripes pattern and how their stripes help them camouflage.But how fast do zebras run and are they black with white stripes or white with black stripes?   p 
 p Hi, Felicity! We're glad you learned more about zebras! They are WONDERful animals! We hope you keep researching them at your library and online! :)  p 
 p zebras are my favorite and yes they are a black animal with white stripes  p 
 p zebras can be either colour on their skin hanna.
  p 
 p Thanks for adding to the conversation! Most zebra have the black skin underneath with white fur. Check out this  a href="http:  animals.sandiegozoo.org animals zebra" _blank article  a  about zebras from the San Diego Zoo for you to explore. Have fun WONDERing! :)   p 
 p That's right, hanna! We love zebras, too. We learned so much from this Wonder. Thanks for sharing what you learned! :)  p 
 p Are zebras white with black stripes? Or black with white stripes?  p 
 p Great question, Alex! We encourage you to read this Wonder again very closely! Always keep WONDERing! :)  p 
 p Hi wonderopolis  p 
 p Hi, maddie! We appreciate you WONDERing with us today! We hope you're having a Terrific Thursday! :)  p 
 p How are zebras measured and how much do zebras' weigh?  p 
 p We love all the great questions coming from Mrs. Bahler's Enrichment Class! We think you'll find great information about zebras from the folks at  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals zebra " target="_blank" rel="nofollow" National Geographic  a ! (http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals zebra ) We hope Daniela, Angel and the rest of Mrs. Bahler's class have a WONDERful day! :)  p 
 p How fast do zebras run?  p 
 p When are zebras most active?  p 
 p We did not know that lions were color blind. We wonder how lions can see zebras because it seems like their stripes keep them hidden. We think maybe lions can detect movement or heat signature from the zebras.  p 
 p We love all the extra WONDERing you are doing, Ms. Williams' and Ms. Burch's class! Thanks for sharing your comment with us! We're so glad to be WONDERing with you! :)  p 
 p I like the zebra video.  (Kyleigh)
They are cool.  (Ella)
They run away fast.  (Callie)
I like their colors. (Juan)
I like their neat legs.  (Wyatt)
I like their tails.  (Braeden)  p 
 p Hello, Mrs. Slate’s WONDERful, WONDERing class! It sounds like you all like zebras a lot! They are really cool animals! Thanks for sharing your WONDERful thoughts with us today! :-)  p 
 p THOUGHT: I think hunting is dangerous.

CONNECTION: My dad goes hunting.

WWOTD: The Colts retrieved a new quarterback.

PREDICTION:I think tomorrow's wonder will be about letters.  p 
 p Hi Destiny, we're glad you enjoyed our zebra Wonder! Thanks for visiting us today and sharing your WONDERful thoughts, connections, and predictions. We think you did a great job using the Wonder word "retrieve" in a sentence! :)  p 
 p Zebras need their stripes so they can blend in with the night sky and be beautiful in the clear bright sky aren't they so beautiful? But they blend in with the night sky so they can hide from being a predator's prey............... *grrrrrrr* *neigh*  p 
 p Zebras are beautiful animals, we couldn't agree more, Bella! Zebra stripes help zebras blend in to their natural habitat-- that way they can hide from their predators! Thanks for sharing your comment! :)  p 
 p First person: Cool I always thought zebras were white with black stripes but guess not! :) Second person - I always thought zebras couldn't blend in with the grass I thought they only blended in with black and white! You guys are awesome with this website I love it.  p 
 p Thank you so much, Wonder Friend Labri, we are so glad you and your Wonder Friends have shared their awesome comments! It's great to know how much you learned about zebras with us- they are WONDERul and interesting! Hooray for you, keep up the great work! :)  p 
 p The baby zerbra was very cute. I like zebras. I'm in 2nd grade.  p 
 p HOORAY for WONDERing, Gordon! We're so glad you enjoyed this Wonder- aren't zebras so cool? We really enjoyed learning about how they survive in the wild... their stripes help them! Have a SUPER Wednesday in the 2nd grade, Gordon! :)  p 
 p I learned ALOT about zebras!  p 
 p I liked the article. Also now I know why zebras have stripes. :)  p 
 p HOORAY for learning something new, Avery! We're so excited that you enjoyed our Wonder about zebras! Aren't they cool?! :)  p 
 p Thanks for the very interesting zebra Wonder! The 7S class really enjoyed finding out about zebras! Lena Wondered how many zebras are usually in a herd. Peter G Wondered how many colours a chameleon can change to, Jacob K Wondered if he could train a zebra. Abe Wondered how many baby zebras a female zebra can have in her life. Benny Wondered if baby zebras can run as fast as the big ones. Margaret P, Agatha, Justina, Chelsea, and Lisa R wondered how long zebras live for.
Thanks again Wonderopolis! We are loving Wondering with you!  p 
 p Hey there, Mrs. Dowdell and our Wonder Friends in 7S! 

Lena, Peter G, Jacob K, Abe, Benny, Margaret P, Agatha, Justina, Chelsea, and Lisa R have so many awesome questions that we can't stop smiling! :) 

We hope you'll continue to research zebras on your own with you WONDERful brains! Some herds have nearly 1,000 zebras in them; a herd is made up of many families, so it all depends on the families and how many children they have. Baby zebras are very fast, especially when they're young, because they have to keep up with the herd in order to stay safe from predators. They may not be very strong, but they're speedy! :) 

Check out Wonder #651-- Why Do Chameleons Change Their Colors? http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-do-chameleons-change-their-colors  :)  p 
 p I love zebras they are my favorite animal but I have a question. What is a baby zebra called?  p 
 p Hey Katelyn, we're glad you're visiting us today! We love WONDERing about animals of all sorts! It's awesome that you enjoyed this Wonder about zebras. When they're born, zebras are known as young zebras, or even baby zebras! :)  p 
 p Hey there Wonderopolis! I always wondered why zebras have stripes! A lion is colorblind, and that is the main predator, so to us humans the zebra sticks out like a sour thumb, but in the wilderness it is a completely different story, so that makes perfect since! I'll be looking at more of your wonders soon. :)  p 
 p Hey there, Ipsgal25! Thanks for sharing your awesome comment with us-- we are thrilled to hear that you learned something new about zebras today! Thanks for summarizing what you learned about camouflage and how zebras live in the wilderness! :)  p 
 p I like zebras. They are cool.  p 
 p I luv zebras  p 
 p Hey there, bat girl! We hope this Wonder has inspired you to keep researching and learning more about zebras! :)  p 
 p We're glad this Wonder made you smile, Bella! We Wonder what you learned about zebras from this video and Wonder? :)  p 
 p Our class learned many new facts about zebras while reading this article. We were most surprised to learn that zebras are black with white stripes. We are still wondering if there are different types of zebras.  We also wonder if zebras are also color blind.  p 
 p We're so glad you learned something new about those striped animals, Mrs. Sasser's Class! Thank you for visiting us today and sharing your comment! While their predator, the lion, is color blind, zebras can see color! Check out another color-focused Wonder here: Wonder #533-- How Can We Know if an Animal is Color Blind? http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-can-we-know-if-an-animal-is-color-blind  :)  p 
 p Wow really interesting it's really cool to learn about the things I never knew about zebras!! I've got one question though why are zebras getting endangered and if lions are color blind how do they sense them?  p 
 p Hey Marissa, thanks for WONDERing with us about all kinds of animals! Zebras use their stripes to their advantage! You can check out Wonder #152 for more information about endangered species... http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-does-a-species-become-endangered  :) 

We all have five senses, but sometimes when one sense isn't as strong, the others make up for it. Lions may not be able to see perfectly, but they are great at listening and sensing what is around them! :)  p 
 p That is really interesting I thought zebras stood out the most but they're camouflaged.   p 
 p Oh because I read a book about zebras and it said that it was caveman who painted black and white stripes so I don't know who to believe. :P  p 
 p Hey there, Anuya! It sounds like your book is awesome! We like the creativity of someone painting the zebra stripes! We Wonder if the book you read is a fiction book? We can Wonder about fiction and non-fiction with this Wonder from the past... it might help you when you don't know who to believe:
Wonder #662-- When Does Nonfiction Become Fiction? http:  wonderopolis.org wonder when-does-nonfiction-become-fiction   :)  p 
 p I didn't know snakes use camouflage! That's interesting!  p 
 p We LOVE learning about how animals protect themselves in their natural habitats too, Devon! Thanks for making a great connection to our animal Wonder! We look forward to WONDERing with you again soon! :)  p 
 p I know an animal that IS color blind: an EAGLE who knew me! I think tomorrow's Wonder will be about how a dog can sometimes crossbreed.  p 
 p Hey Tessa! That is an exciting story! Have you ever WONDERed about an eagle? We have! http:  wonderopolis.org wonder are-bald-eagles-really-bald  :)  p 
 p Hey it's me I was wondering why are some things color blind and can we get it and why do they have tongues? They don't talk so why do they need it? And you guys should have a v-day wonder like why do we have it and who made it.  p 
 p Genetics have a lot to do with being color blind, Alyssa! While zebras can't talk like us, they still need to eat! Their tongues are important to help them chew, just like they help us! We hope you enjoy our Wonder on February 14th, our hearts are pumping! :)  p 
 p I love zebras are they considered horses?  p 
 p Hey there, WOnder Friend Bonquiqui! We're glad this zebra Wonder had you smiling with Wonder! Horses and zebras are related in the animal world, but there are differences between the two animals. We Wonder if you can compare and contrast horses and zebras? :)  p 
 p Hey there Wonderopolis!! 
I was just wondering... why is it that the zebra are color blind OH and I am wondering how to do algebra... THANK YOU :)  p 
 p Thanks for sharing your comment with us, Sienna456, we're glad you've been thinking about zebras, and math, too! :)

While zebras can see just like you can, the animals that hunts zebras are color blind-- lions! They have trouble seeing zebras because the zebras blend into their surroundings through the eyes of a lion! 

We know algebra can be tough in the beginning, but we believe in you! We think asking your teacher for help is the best option-- algebra takes some time and patience, but we know you can do it! :)  p 
 p Hi wonderopolis!
I really liked the video and the information. I love how you make the information fun but educational at the same time! So where do you get your information? Can't wait to see tomorrow's wonder of the day!
Thanks, 
Radha108  p 
 p Hey there, Radha108! We're so glad you have been WONDERing with us, it's lots of fun! We do a lot of research on the Internet, at the library and we even talk to experts to get all the Wonder information! Can't wait to Wonder with you tomorrow! :)  p 
 p Hi I'm Kimora and I just wanted to tell you that the things you come up with are AMAZING !!! I love all the videos you come up with they are so cool. Especially the zebra one . All the videos have interesting facts. 
               
               Thanks, Kimora  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friend Kimora! Thanks for sharing your super comments with us! HOORAY for you! Zebras are super cool creatures, and we learned all about them in their natural habitat. Thanks for sharing your thoughts about our Wonder video and information, too! We hope to Wonder with you soon! :)  p 
 p Hey, I'm Kimora. I love how it shows all the interesting things about zebras. It was really nice getting the opportunity to get on Wonderopolis and see all this exciting stuff. Maybe your next wonder should be on "Why don't penguins swim" or something amazing!!!!  p 
 p Zebras are my favorite animal!!! I'm glad you wrote about them! My favorite part of them is their stripes so I'm glad you wrote about that! Thanks! :)  p 
 p We're so glad we could Wonder about zebras together, Ali! We were happy to learn about zebras' stripes-- they sure do come in handy in the wild! Thanks for sharing your comment today! :)  p 
 p I love zebras!! :)  I always thought that they had stripes to hide in tall grass but this confirms it! Thanks so much!  p 
 p Nice work, Wonder Friend N! We are so glad you learned about zebras' stripes-- they are such cool animals! Thanks for visiting us today! :)  p 
 p WOW I never knew that about zebras.  p 
 p We're oh-so-glad you learned something new today, Cassandra! Thanks for sharing your comment! :)  p 
 p Zebras are so cool. :)  p 
 p HEY now I know why zebras have stripes.  p 
 p That's great news, Ashley! Thanks for sharing your comment with us- we are sending you a virtual high five! :)  p 
 p Hi, I am Briahna and I am in Mrs. Hess' class, here are my wonders: Are zebras born with stripes, or do they grow and then the stripes start appearing as the get older? What other animals are color blind? Are zebras color blind? How many zebras are born each year? Is there a certain time during the year when most zebras are born, or are they just born all the time throught the year? What is the lifespand of a zebra? I LOVE WONDERing with you everyday!  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friend Briahna! We are so happy that you have shared all your WONDERful questions with us today; we bet you can do some WONDERing of your own about zebras-- the Internet and the library are great places to start! Please let us know what you find after you research! :)  p 
 p Cool I did not know all that stuff about zebras it was so cool.  p 
 p Hey there, Madyson! Thanks for sharing your comment with us today! It's so much fun to learn new things with great Wonder Friends! :)  p 
 p Great to know about them :)  p 
 p Thanks for WONDERing with us, Wonder Friend Race! We are glad you enjoyed learning about zebras and their cool stripes! :)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,

We learned that zebras move in packs so that they look like one big animal. We also learned that they are black with white stripes. Why are zebras called black and white horses? Why do animals like lions and zebras only see in black and white? Is the lion the only animal that hunts zebras? Do zebras have teeth? Why can't the lion pick out the black and white stripes? How fast does a zebra go? Are zebras related to any prehistoric animal?

We think tomorrow's wonder will be about Greek mythology.  p 
 p We love that you learned so much about zebras with us, Mrs. Chevalier's Class! HOORAY! Zebras and horses are very closely related- they're kind of like cousins in the animal world. We learned that lions are colorblind, which allows zebras to blend into their surroundings easily. Check out this photo from the eyes of the colorblind: http:  upload.wikimedia.org wikipedia commons thumb f fb Zebra_camouflage.jpg 800px-Zebra_camouflage.jpg! 

We are so happy you shared your very own Wonders with us today-- and we hope you'll do some more research to answer those questions. Keep up the great work and thanks for sharing your guess for tomorrow! :)  p 
 p Wonderopolis never gives you the answer for each wonder.  p 
 p Hey there, Molly, we're so glad you're here! We LOVE to Wonder with friends like you, and we have so much information to share that sometimes the answer isn't always the most important thing. Learning about new, cool topics and discovering something interesting is what really matters! We hope you will come back to visit us soon! Did you find the answer about zebra stripes in our Wonder? :)  p 
 p Hey guys!
I was WONDERing what tomorrow's wonder is, and I'm guessing it is Roman Numerals! How cool! That is funny because we are learning about that in school right now! Very WONDERful!
Thanks again,
Fireheart101  p 
 p How cool, Fireheart101! Way to guess correctly! We're so happy you connected today's Wonder to what you are learning in school! :)  p 
 p Hey Wonderopolis!
I just was wondering...How is it that the scientists can tell is a lion is colorblind, and if it is, wouldn't the zebra still stand out?
Thanks,
Fireheart101  p 
 p Great questions, fireheart101! Scientists did a lot of research to determine that lions are colorblind, and that's how zebras stay hidden in their natural habitat. Take a look at this photo, and you can tell how well zebras hide: http:  upload.wikimedia.org wikipedia commons thumb f fb Zebra_camouflage.jpg 800px-Zebra_camouflage.jpg! :-)  p 
 p Is there a reason why they have stripes?  p 
 p I love zebras but I thought they were going to be black an white but after seeing the video and the facts I learned that zebras are white and black and I wonder if tomorrow's wonder will be about x-rays  p 
 p IS there a reason why they have strips?  p 
 p Great question, Dakota! The stripes on the zebra are used as camouflage, to protect them from their predators. We're glad you're WONDERing with us, Dakota! :)  p 
 p Would you make tomarrows wonder about unicorns?  p 
 p Hmmm. Tomorrow’s Wonder of the Day takes a closer look at a unit of time that’s really for the dogs -- we WONDER if you have any guesses as to what it could be about, unicorn panda! :)  p 
 p Zebras are fascinating creatures at first I thought the stripes was for  people  to not think that it is a horse. Then my question is that what animal do the herds form when they run together? Did wonderoplis know that there was a zebra that is now extinct call a quagga zebra. I learned a lot about zebras today and I hope to learn more soon  about animals.  p 
 p WOW, way to go Wonder Friend Joseph! We're so excited that you shared all you learned today! While the zebras in a herd may not look like another animal specifically, they look much larger from far away. Any predator of a zebra might be scared because of the look of the large animal coming toward them! Thanks for WONDERing with us today, Joseph! :)  p 
 p Lions are color blind. They use the stripes for camouflage and confusing their opponents.  p 
 p Nice work, Wonder Friend student- you've done a fantastic job of WONDERing today! Thanks for sharing all that you've learned! :)  p 
 p I like this info of the zebra I learned some stuff I didn't know about the zebra before as in how the animal hides in the brush and how the lion is color blind so it can't see the zebra so easy.  p 
 p It's so much fun when we can learn something together, Wonder Friend student! WAY TO GO! :)  p 
 p Why are zebras black with white stripes?
  
I looked and they have white with black stripes.

Look for yourself and see if they are black with white or white with black stripes.  p 
 p THE ZEBRAS ARE COOL AND AWESOME SO KEEP ON MAKING THESE WONDERS IT IS COOL.  p 
 p Thanks so much, LILD! We can't wait to Wonder with you soon... we're so glad you enjoy Wonderopolis! :)  p 
 p I learnd that a zebra has cool types of way to hide from predators!  p 
 p Thanks for sharing what you learned about zebras, Wonder Student! Thanks for sharing your comment, and we hope to see you soon! :)  p 
 p I LEARNED THAT LIONS ARE COLORBLIND.  p 
 p Can zebras see in black and white but I did learn that they can camouflage so that's cool but next time can you try harder to find out why from 12jk.   p 
 p Hey there, 12jk! Thanks for WONDERing with us today! We learned that lions are color-blind but zebras can see just fine! Thanks for sharing your comment, Wonder Friend! :)  p 
 p Zebras have stripes because of their genes, long ago there where two types of zebras a white zebra and a black zebra they soon combined both of there genes to make a stripped zebra.  p 
 p Thanks for sharing what you know about zebras, Kiki! There are three types of zebras that exist, but every single zebra has a unique stripe pattern- just like our fingerprints! :)  p 
 p HEY I THING THIS IS AWESOME. BECAUSE IT TEACHES YOU ABOUT  ZEBRAS AND IT IS SOOOOOO  AWESOME.  p 
 p Thanks so much, LILD! We're so glad you are WONDERing about zebras with us today! :)  p 
 p The PinkPanthers is my class. I really liked the video I can't believe how close he must have got to the zebras I could hear some wildlife in the background.

I think your website is awesome!

My guess for tomorrow is roman numerals. Can't wait to find out!  p 
 p Thanks for visiting us again, Doglover! We are so glad that you and your Wonder Classmates enjoy visiting Wonderopolis- we LOVE hanging out with you! Thanks for sharing your comment and your guess! :)  p 
 p Wonderopolis,

Today's wonder was one of my favorite wonders! I really like animals. Why do zebras have mohawks? Why don't they just have manes like horses?  Today's clue for tomorrow really stumped me, but I think tomorrow's wonder is going to be about Roman numerals!

Mikayla T :-)  p 
 p We're so glad to hear that you enjoyed WONDERing about zebras with us, Mikayla T! Zebras do have an interesting hairdo... their hair is similar to a horse's mane, but it's short and sticks out. We think you're on the right track... great guess for tomorrow! :)  p 
 p Hi liked the videos. :)  p 
 p We're glad to hear it, Wonder Friend Fouf! What was your favorite part of today's zebra Wonder? :)  p 
 p Cool beans.  p 
 p We're glad today's Wonder was right up your alley, Dawsman! We Wonder what your favorite piece of information from today's Wonder was? :)  p 
 p I really liked this WONDER!!!! :)  p 
 p Thanks so much, Chrissy! We're glad to hear it! :-)  p 
 p P.S.  How do scientists know that zebras are black with white stripes?
Always wondering....  p 
 p Great question, Wonder Friends! We're glad you're back, too! :-) 

Scientists have researched zebras for years, and those who work closely with the animals have studied the animals' pigmentation! :)  p 
 p Is it roman numerals? Also we would love to learn if a rainbow could ever be shaped in a full circle.  If there was not any ground, would it finish off the shape of a circle?  p 
 p Great guess, Wonder Friends in Mrs. B's Class! We can't wait to find out if you're correct about tomorrow's Wonder of the Day®! HOORAY! We're really excited about your rainbow Wonder, too! Keep up the great work! :)  p 
 p Although we didn't love the video because there weren't any words or telling us information, we did enjoy reading about how zebras use stripes as camouflage from their predators.  We did like the pictures too.  We didn't know that lions were colorblind.  Thank you for sharing this wonder with us!!
Can't wait to see what's coming up next....

Mrs. J's third and fourth graders  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friends in Mrs. J's third and fourth grade class- we're so glad you're here! We're glad you learned how zebras protect themselves in their natural habitat! We think it's so cool that their stripes are unique AND they help them stay safe! Thanks for joining us today! :)  p 
 p I'm in Mrs. Hess' class and she thinks that you guys are AMAZING. She enjoys watching wonderopolis because she learns new things. I enjoy it to. Have a WONDERful day.  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friend Carlos! Thanks for sharing such a kind comment-- you're a great Wonder Friend! We really enjoy learning with our Wonder Friends in Mrs. Hess' class... and we think Mrs. Hess is a world-class teacher! Give her a big high five for us, please! Have a SUPER day! :)  p 
 p I think this is a great passage...  p 
 p Well thank you so much, Wonder Friend Andrea! We are glad you're here today! :)  p 
 p We are working on questioning in class and I was wondering where you got your information?  p 
 p Awesome question, Morgan! We do a LOT of research, using books from the library, reputable sources online, and we even talk to experts once in a while! We're so glad you are working on questioning in class-- you have a great question! Thanks for WONDERing with us today! :)  p 
 p Thank you for the information about the zebra. The part of the zebra stripes is very interesting.  p 
 p You've got it, Arianna! We're so happy you have been WONDERing with us today! Great work! :)  p 
 p Zebras stripes are really brown not black they may seem black but they're not.  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friend mincrafterlover! Sometimes zebras are a dark brown, while others have black skin with white stripes. Thanks for sharing your awesome comment! :)  p 
 p This really suprised me I really didn't know that they can do that, and i learned something new today! Thanks WONDER!  p 
 p Thanks for sharing what you learned today, Danny! Nice work! :)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis,
We didn't know that lions were colorblind!  We also didn't know that each zebra's stripes are different.  It's like our fingerprints. Cool!
It was neat to try and visualize a zebra being black with white stripes, instead of the other way around.
We were wondering how much a zebra eats each day?

We think tomorrow's wonder will be about Roman Numerals, a ten letter word or the alphabet - starting at x.  p 
 p Check it out! Our Wonder Friends, the PinkPanthers, have been doing a great job of learning tons of facts about zebras! HOORAY! Great comparison-- the stripes a zebra wears are just like our very own fingerprints-- unique! Zebras enjoy eating grass, shrubs and drinking water daily. 

We are  em counting  em  on you to join us tomorrow for another great Wonder! Thanks for sharing your super guesses! :)  p 
 p I really liked today's wonder! Zebras are one of my favorite animals. I have a Schleich figurine of a zebra.  I thought it was so interesting to hear that zebras are not a white animal with black stripes, they are a black animal with white stripes, and that no two zebras's stripes are alike. Thank you for today's wonder!  :)   ;)  p 
 p Today's Wonder made us smile, too, Berkleigh! We're so glad this Wonder topic was all about your favorite animal- the beautiful zebra! Thanks for being a great Wonder Friend and sharing what you learned today, Berkleigh! You ROCK! :)  p 
 p We learned everything about zebras and they use camouflage.  p 
 p Hey there, Lil' Madi and Big Madi! We're glad you're WONDERing together today! Thanks for sharing what you learned-- have a SUPER day! :)  p 
 p Mrs. Goneau's second grade class was wondering...If you had a zebra costume on, would they think you were one of the zebras?
How smart is a zebra?
How tall are zebras?
How old can zebras get?
How fast can they run?
How many babies can zebras have at one time?
How do zebra babies drink?  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friends in Mrs. Goneau's Class! We're so glad you shared some awesome WONDERs of your own! We bet a zebra would recognize the zebra costume, but we bet they could smell the difference right away... and luckily, we're not the same size as those great animals! Zebras will live about 40 years in captivity, like living in a zoo. Zebras are large animals, so unlike other animals, only one is born at a time! 

We hope you'll continue to Wonder on your own and find the answers to your STELLAR questions! :)  p 
 p Some people think that zebras aren't real. We think zebras are real.  p 
 p Hey there, Sanaa and Kassidy, thanks for WONDERing with us today! You're right, zebras are so beautiful they almost remind us of a mythical creature! However, you can visit your local zoo, and we bet they'd have a zebra or two! Thanks for sharing your comment! :)  p 
 p We learned some new things today.  Even our teacher learned something new about zebras.  We began to wonder if other big cats are color blind like lions.  We wondered if zebras and donkeys are connected, like cousins.  

Predictions for tomorrow's wonder: X-rays, words that start with x, going from x to a, New Year's Eve, something to do with math, algebra.  p 
 p We LOVE learning new things with our awesome Wonder Friends in Mrs. Atkinson's Class! We also did some more WONDERing about zebras and their relatives... they're closely related to the horse! Also, baby zebras are called foals, just like baby horses! 

Thanks for sharing your WONDERful guesses with us-- we're  em counting  em  down the hours until tomorrow's Wonder! :)  p 
 p I like the stripes on the zebra, I think it's interesting because other animals can't see them and it protects the zebra. I'm glad I can see the stripes.  p 
 p Great point, Tommy! We're glad we can see the beautiful stripes on zebras, too! Thanks for sharing what you learned today-- you did a great job of summarizing all those facts! :)  p 
 p Is tomorrow's wonder of the day about roman numerals?  p 
 p OOOH, great guess, Wonder Friends in Mrs. K's Class! We LOVE that idea! :)  p 
 p Thoughts:  It's interesting to think that zebras use their stripes to escape their predators.  Do zebras have mohawks?  We were very surprised by today's question.  None of us thought it would be about zebras.  How were zebras named?  Have zebras always had their stripes?  How do you tell a boy zebra from a girl?  What is the life span of a zebra?

Predictions:  How do x-rays work?  How did the alphabet start?  What are Roman Numerals?  When will the XBox 720 come out?  Who invented the xylophone(sp?)?  Are going to the SuperBowl?  Why is an x-ray called an x-ray?  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friends in Mrs. Hess' Class! It kind of looks like zebras are wearing a mohawk for a hairstyle, doesn't it? :) Zebras help one another and will sometimes nibble on one another (in a friendly way) to get rid of dirt and loose hair! We are so glad you've been WONDERing with us about zebras today... keep up your WONDERing! We'd love it if you share what you learn about zebras... their name, their stripes and their gender! 

We can't wait to find out what tomorrow's Wonder will be-- but we LOVE your guesses! :)  p 
 p Zebras have really cool stripes. Are they black with white stripes or white with black stripes???  p 
 p Great question, Wonder Friend Kate! Check out the excerpt below and find your answer below:
"Although most people tend to think of the zebra as a white animal with black stripes, scientists have discovered that the zebra is actually a black animal with white stripes. Much like a fingerprint, the stripes on a zebra are unique. No two animals have the same pattern.

Zebras aren’t the only animals that use camouflage to survive in the wild. Many mammals, snakes and insects have developed special ways of blending into their habitats. One of the most famous camouflaging creatures is the chameleon, which can change color to blend into its environment." :)  p 
 p Good Morning, Wonderopolis!
Today's Wonder of the Day was perfect for us! We just started a reading unit called "Look Again"... all about camouflage!! Our story this week is even about a chameleon! We loved learning about the zebras' stripes and how they help them hide from lions. One of our favorite teachers is also colorblind like the lion! We WONDER what zebras look like to him? Thank you for the AMAZING WONDER!  p 
 p Good afternoon, Wonder Friends in Mrs. Plunkert's Class! We Wonder if you and fellow Wonder Friends in Mrs. Bowes's Class are reading the same story about chameleons! (they left a comment just before you did!) Wouldn't that be WONDERful?! 

How cool that today's Wonder connects to your lessons in school- that's awesome news! We Wonder if your favorite teacher and lions have a similar point of view when it comes to zebras? Thanks for visiting us today! Have a SUPER day! :)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis I am surprised.  p 
 p We love to surprise our Wonder Friends, Damiano! We Wonder what you learned from today's striped Wonder!? :)  p 
 p I love the zebra video I think it was interesting.  p 
 p Awesome, Kenneth V! We Wonder if you learned anything new today about those cool zebras? :)  p 
 p Good morning, wonderopolis!  Thank you so much for sharing that interesting information about zebras!  We had no idea they had stripes in order to camouflage themselves from their predators.  Those awesome stripes must keep those beautiful zebras safe!  We think the zebras use their tails to keep bugs away.  Are there any other uses for their tails?  We also loved the video, the baby zebra was too cute! What a fantistic WONDER!  p 
 p Good afternoon, Wonder Friends in Ms. Hobson's Class! PHEW, what a day it's been! We're so excited you have enjoyed WONDERing about zebras today! The zebra tail is very similar to a horse's tail-- it might go up when the zebra is excited, and it will lay flat when the animal is relaxed. Perhaps that is true of your pet cat or dog?! Have a SUPER day-- thanks for visiting us today! :)  p 
 p Sometimes I see zebras as the zoo.   p 
 p That's awesome, Jusin! The zoo is a great place to Wonder, and learn about animals from all over the world! :)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,
Wow! We're studying camouflage this week. We just finished reading about chameleons in our reading story. It was amazing to find out that some animals are color blind. It was a fun fact to learn that a zebra is black with white stripes and none are alike.
Have a wonder filled day!  p 
 p How cool-- our Wonder Friends in Mrs. Bowes's Class are WONDERing about a recent topic! AWESOME! We're sending virtual high fives your way! Your reading story also sounds super cool... thanks for making awesome connections to your own lessons! HOORAY for WONDERing! :)  p 
 p Wow when I looked at this wonder question I never predicted that.  I'm wondering if tomorrow's wonder is about an instrument that starts with an x. By the way I'm in Mrs. Hess' class. I will be going to school in 30 min. and what is the most unique type of pattern on an animal?  p 
 p Great guess, Joaquin! We can't wait for tomorrow's Wonder, either, but we are so glad you are WONDERing with us today! All our Wonder Friends in Mrs. Hess' class are ROCKSTAR Wonder Friends! Thanks for making us smile (and sharing your awesome Wonder, too!). :)  p 
 p Can the lion stand the zebras by their color? Are they getting extinct?  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friend Alvaro! We learned that lions have difficulty seeing zebras because their stripes work as camouflage in their natural habitat. Some types of zebras are extinct, and the species is often hunted for their beautiful stripes. We LOVE zebras and we hope they are around for many years to come! :)  p 
 p Good morning Wonderopolis!

We were wondering what a baby zebra is called. We thought maybe it is a foal, like a baby horse. We think it is very interesting that zebras are black with white stripes. Thank you for all of the wondering you do!

Sincerely,
Mrs. Reasor's Fourth Grade Class  p 
 p Hey there, Wonder Friends in Mrs. Reasor's Class! You're oh-so-right, a baby zebra is called a foal! We also learned that they can walk after 20 minutes, and run after 1 hour! WOWZA! Thanks for WONDERing with us today! :)  p 
 p I am in Mrs. Hess' class so today's wonder was not what I expected. I didn't really understand the video. Why didn't the zebras run away from the guy holding the camera?  p 
 p Hey there, Jaaron M! We are so glad you're WONDERing with us today, especially if today's Wonder made you think! :) We think it's so cool that the video shows the zebras up close in their natural habitat. The person filming the video must have been so still that the zebras were not threatened by his or her presence... or the videographer could have been camouflaged so the zebras couldn't see at all! :)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis
I really liked the zebra video I think the stripes look like they were painted on! They were really pretty and I think it would be cool to see one in real life. Something else that I thought was cool that the person recording the video got really close to the zebras and did not scare them away.

I think tomorrow's wonder is going to be on Roman numerals.  p 
 p I love zebras, but why do you not say anything in the video?   p 
 p Hi, Klowie! To learn more about zebras, click on the "Listen" button below the the video. We hope this helps! Thanks for WONDERing with us, today! :-)  p 
 p my class does this all the time wonderopolis!  p 
 p That's great, maddie! We appreciate the support. We love when you are learning and having fun at the same time! :)  p 
 p Hey there, pandalover! Thanks for sharing your awesome comment with us! We LOVED learning about zebras, especially since they are actually black with white stripes!! We hope you have the chance to visit a zoo or even go on a safari-- then you can see zebras, lions, and even pandas in their natural habitat! Thanks for WONDERing with us and sharing your SUPER guess, too! :)  p 
 p Your Welcome ***********************************  p 
 p Hey, Wonder Friends! We LOVE hearing from you and want you to join our
                Wonder conversation! Before you submit your comment, please remember:  p 
 p Comments are subject to approval and may not be published if they are not appropriate for the Wonder discussion. Thanks!  p 
 p  span How Much Information Can We Memorize?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does the Sky Change Color at Sunrise and Sunset?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does Cold Air Feel Crisp?  span   p 
 p  span How Do Mobile Phones Affect the Ecosystem?  span   p 
 p  span Are Naps Good for the Human Body?  span   p 
 p #852  p 
 p class="hint for-big"  span class="orange" Drag  span  a word to its  span class="green" definition  span   p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="for-small" Select a Wonder Word:  p 
 p class="for-small" Match its definition:  p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="border" You’ve matched all of the definitions correctly.  p 
 p #852  p 
 p class="top" Question  b 1  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Question  b 2  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Question  b 3  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Quiz Results  p 
 p You have answered  b id="fnc-num-answered" 0  b  of  b 3  b  questions correctly and your score is:
                          p 
 p Subscribe to Wonderopolis and receive
            the Wonder of the Day® via email or SMS  p 
 p Don’t miss our special deals, gifts and promotions. Be the first to know!  p 
 p Tell everybody about Wonderopolis and its wonders.  p 
 p Interested in sharing Wonderopolis® every day? Want to add a little wonder to your website? Help spread the wonder of families learning together.  p 
 p 2014–2019 © National Center for Families Learning  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-do-zebras-have-stripes-2  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" © National Center for Families Learning (NCFL)  p 
