 p Please choose between the following three options:  p 
 p Neighbourhood blading is now underway. Use our  a href=" transportation on_your_streets neighbourhood-roads-winter.aspx"  Know Your Snow Day tool  a  to find out when it's happening in your neighbourhood.  p 
 p class="screen-read" The breadcrumb trail links represent the path to the current page relative to the homepage link.  p 
 p class="screen-read" id="aria-main" Main page content begins here  p 
 p  strong Scientific Name:  strong  em  Equus grevyi  em    p 
 p  strong Habitat:  strong  semi-desert plains and savanna  p 
 p  strong Diet:  strong  grasses, bark, fruit and leaves  p 
 p  strong Life Span:  strong  18 years (30 years in captivity)  p 
 p  strong Young:   strong 1 young every other year (foal)  p 
 p  strong Size:   strong 350-450 kg (159–205 lbs)  p 
 p The stripes of a zebra are like human fingerprints - each pattern is different. The stripes help to camouflage the zebra and confuse predators. Heat vapours rising from the ground make the stripes appear to move. This effect makes it difficult for the predator to target individual zebras. This effect is increased when the group of zebras are running.  p 
 p Male zebra are generally solitary and are known to occupy the largest territory of any herbivore, sometimes up to 12 Km sup 2  sup  . They mark their territories around watering and grazing areas with piles of dung, called middens. Zebras ears are very agile and when “wiggled” communicate danger signals to other zebras.  Watch closely to see how their ears move individually.   p 
 p The Grevy’s zebra is the largest of three zebra species with a thick rigid mane and large rounded ears. Although related to the horse, Grevy’s zebras are more closely related to donkeys. Grevy’s zebras are unusual because they do not form lasting bonds like plains zebras and horses. Their group composition changes regularly. Herds are usually made up of female zebras and their young.  p 
 p  a href=" attractions_events edmonton_valley_zoo species-survival-plan.aspx" Species Survival Plan  a  br 
The Species Survival Plan (SSP) consists of co-operative, coordinated breeding programs for captive endangered species throughout the world. Species Survival Plans are not a substitute for preserving animals in nature but are a strategy for creating healthy, self-sustaining, captive populations that can be reintroduced into restored or secured habitats.  p 
 p These are some other websites that we think have more great information about this species.  p 
 p  a href="http:  animaldiversity.ummz.umich.edu site accounts information Equus_grevyi.html" Grevy's zebra on Animal Diversity Web  a   p 
 p  strong Range:   strong northern Kenya and pockets of southern Ethiopia  p 
 p  strong Status:   strong endangered  p 
 p 13315 Buena Vista Road (87th Avenue) br PO Box 2359 br Edmonton, Alberta T5J 2R7  p 
 p End of page content. Please choose between the following five options:  p 
 p Learn more about how we're  a href="http:  transformingedmonton.ca ?utm_source=coe&amp;utm_medium=footer&amp;utm_campaign=socialmedia" transforming Edmonton  a , in the way we:  p 
 p class="copyright" 
                    © 2019 City of Edmonton. All rights reserved.
                  p 
