 p 
    Zebra use their stripes to confuse predators by huddling together – it’s hard to tell where one animals ends and the next begins 
    p 
 p  b Weight:  b  200-300kgs    p 
 p  b Size:  b   height 110-145cms, length 2-2.5m   p 
 p  b Number of offspring:  b   1 foal     p 
 p  b Gestation:  b   11.5 months     p 
 p  b Maturity:  b   3-4yrs   p 
 p  b Lifespan:  b   20-25yrs    p 
 p  b Predators:  b   African painted dog, lions, spotted hyena   p 
 p Highly adaptable species living in areas with course vegetation possessing little nutritional value, however needs daily access to water. Living on grasslands and savanna woodlands, both tropical and temperate  p 
 p Full Migrant; migrating annually across Namibia and Botswana in search of better grazing pastures, forming Africa’s longest land migration of over 400kms.  
Zebra can reach speeds of 65kph and strong kicks and bite when threatened 
  p 
 p Mid-sized and thick bodied, boldly striped black and white with a black or dark muzzle. All Zebras have individual markings with no two alike. Their necks are maned with short hair and their tail ends in a longhaired tuft  p 
 p Southern Sudan and southern Ethiopia, east of the Nile River to southern Angola and northern Namibia and northern South Africa   p 
 p Herbivore; Feeding selectively on particular grass species   p 
 p Breeding occurs throughout the year although peak births occur during the wet season. The herd stallion has sole breeding access to the females  p 
 p Highly social species, living in complex social systems. Harems comprise a single stallion to several unrelated mares and their recent offspring. Bachelor groups also exist. Groups come together to form migrating herds of 10,000 or more for safety against predators.   p 
 p Habitat destruction although as a whole this species is widespread and common - not facing any major threats at present  p 
 p style="text-align:start" 222 Tomakin Road, Mogo, NSW 2536, Australia br Phone:  02 4474 4930 br    p 
 p Thank you!  p 
 p Someone from the team will be in touch shortly  p 
 p class="text-align-center" © Copyright Mogo Zoo 2017  p 
