 p class="noImagePar" Zebras are generally widespread except for the drier central regions of Botswana. Most common sightings are in the  a href="http:  www.botswana.co.za place Okavango-Delta.html" Okavango Delta  a ,  a href="http:  www.botswana.co.za place Chobe-National-Park.html" Chobe National Park  a  and  a href="http:  www.botswana.co.za place Savute.html" Savute  a . During the rainy season a huge dazzle of zebra migrate to the Makgadikgadi Pans. This  a href="http:  www.botswana.co.za place Makgadikgadi-Pans.html" Zebra Migration in Botswana  a  the second largest migration of zebra in Africa with up 25 000 roaming through the pans.  p 
 p class="noImagePar" In Botswana only the  strong Burchell's zebra  strong  occurs. The zebra is the national animal of Botswana. Zebra are generally migratory animals and in Botswana there are two annual migrations of zebra that occur. The first is the  strong migration of thousands of zebra  strong  between the  strong northern waterways of Chobe and Linyanti  strong , where they spend the dry season, to the lush grasses of the Savute Marsh and Mababe Depression after the first rains. br 
 br 
The second migration of note is to and from  strong the Makgadikgadi Pans  strong  after the rains. This migration has been the source of much debate recently between the conservation authorities and the local farmers. br  br 
The  strong Boteti River provided a natural barrier  strong  between the two in the past but with the drying up of the Boteti wildlife and cattle were competing for the same limited water sources. Solutions have been put in place.  p 
 p class="noImagePar" The zebra, with its black and white striped coat, is one of the most characteristic animals of the African savannahs. What is not well known is that the  strong zebra of the southern wilderness areas  strong  have a shadow brown stripe in the white stripe. This distinguishes them from the zebra of east Africa that do not have the shadow stripe. br 
 br 
Each individual  strong zebra has unique patterning  strong  i.e. no two animals are the same. The patterning works along the lines of fingerprinting in humans. When a zebra is born the mother keeps it hidden from other zebras until her patterns have imprinted on the foals memory.  p 
 p class="noImagePar" There are three species of zebra in Africa: Burchell's or plains zebra, the Grevys zebra of east Africa and the Mountain zebras, Cape and Hartmann's, of South Africa and Namibia.   p 
