 p class="tagline site-header__tagline tagline--left " From the team at BBC Wildlife Magazine  p 
 p class="body-copy-large" itemprop="description" Discover all the most incredible facts about zebras right here. These stripy African mammals are fascinating creatures and we've got loads of fun facts for you!  p 
 p Zebras are closely related to horses but they’re not the same species. They’re in the same family (called Equidae) and they can even breed with each other, but zebras aren’t just striped horses as they evolved separately.  p 
 p It would be possible to ride a zebra, but definitely not recommended. Riding a zebra wouldn’t be practical simply because they’re smaller than horses and unlikely to be able to support the weight of an adult human for an extended period of time without getting injured, especially as they haven’t been selectively bred for this trait like horses have.  p 
 p Zebras also have very different temperaments to horses. They’re far more aggressive and a lot more dangerous. Zebras have been known to kick each other to death, they will viciously bite any human that comes too close, and there are even many accounts of zebras killing lions.  p 
 p The only way to train zebras to be ridden or pull a carriage is through cruel and inhumane treatment. This has been done successfully in the past (Lord Rothschild used to drive his zebra-drawn carriage through London), but obviously it’s not something that would be acceptable in the modern world.  p 
 p In Ancient Rome, Grevy’s zebra were trained to pull chariots at Roman circuses under the alias ‘hippotigris’ (‘horse-tiger’). br   p 
 p There are three species of zebra: Grevy’s zebra ( em Equus grevyi  em ), mountain zebra ( em E. zebra  em ) and plains zebra ( em E. quagga  em ), the latter of which is by far the most common. The plains zebra is divided into six extant subspecies (the quagga is an extinct subspecies); the mountain into two.  p 
 p Zebras are odd-toed ungulates and thus belong to the Perissodactyla order. There are three extant families within this order: Equidae (horses, asses, and zebras), Rhinocerotidae (rhinos), and Tapiridae (tapirs).  p 
 p The Grevy’s zebra is the rarest of the three species (and is classed as endangered), followed by the mountain zebra, both of which are classed as vulnerable after having their populations dramatically reduced.  p 
 p There are still lots of plains zebra (although their populations have also declined), but there used to be another subspecies of plains zebra called the quagga, which was hunted to extinction in the late 19th century.  p 
 p Zebras make a range of noises, some of which are the same as horses while others are unique.  p 
 p Like horses, zebras will snort when excited and nicker (creating a ‘whuffle’ kind of sound by blowing air through their nose and lips) when greeting each other.  p 
 p But zebras also bray in a similar way to donkeys and mules, but horses don’t. A zebra bray is wider ranging than a donkey’s, starting as a low growl and rising to a high squeal not unlike a pig. Braying like this can be heard over great distances and is used to find potential mates.  p 
 p Finally, zebras also have a surprisingly high-pitched bark. It sounds more like a noise you’d expect from a wild dog rather than a member of the horse family, but zebras use it to find each other in a herd. br   p 
 p Zebras are very speedy animals, and can reach speeds of up to 65kph when galloping across the plains. This is just fast enough to outpace predators such as lions. Foals can run with the herd within a few hours of birth.  p 
 p A zebra’s stripy coat is thought to disperse more than 70 per cent of incoming heat, preventing the animal from overheating in the African sun. This is because air moves at different speeds over light-absorbing black stripes and light-reflecting white stripes, so the zebra creates its own cooling air currents.  p 
 p In addition to keeping zebras cool, it’s thought that a zebra’s stripes also serve to help camouflage the animal in long grass, and distract predators. While that might seem unlikely when we look at them, you’ve got to remember that lions are colour blind, and a herd of stripy running zebras will very confusing if you see everything in black and white.  p 
 p Recent research also shows that a zebra’s stripes may have evolved to keep biting insects at bay – the monochrome pattern seems to throw off the visual systems of flies.  p 
 p Nope, zebras are black with white stripes!  p 
 p Some zebras don’t have stripes on their bellies, in which case the fur is white, so we used to think that zebras were white with black stripes. But recent research looking at embryological evidence has shown that a zebra’s underlying colour is actually black, and it’s the white that’s added on top.  p 
 p So next time you watch  em Madagascar  em , you’ll understand Marty the zebra a little bit better.  p 
 p A dazzle of zebras is the most common collective noun, named for the motion dazzle effect created by a group of running zebras.  p 
 p A group of zebras can also be called a herd of zebras or a zeal of zebras, but those aren’t quite as much fun.  p 
 p While Grevy zebra society tends to be fairly open, that of plains and mountain zebras is more tight-knit, with the animals living in harems of up to six breeding females and their young, with a dominant male. Each female has a place in the hierarchy.  p 
 p These groups are so close that if a predator injures one individual, fellow members will circle it and attempt to scare the intruder away with their teeth and hooves.  p 
 p Like horses, zebras sleep standing up, and usually only when in the safety of a group.  p 
 p Zebras are widespread across vast areas of southern and eastern Africa, where they live in their preferred habitat of treeless grasslands and savannah woodlands. However, their habitat is shrinking, and they’re already extinct in two of the countries to which they’re native (Lesotho and Burundi).  p 
 p Zebras don’t live in deserts, wetlands or rainforests, which may make them vulnerable to climate change.  p 
 p One of the most extraordinary phenomena in the natural world is the annual 1,800-mile migration of millions of zebra, blue wildebeest and other antelope between the Serengeti in Tanzania and Kenya’s Masai Mara in a constant search of food and water.  p 
 p class="body-copy-extra-small js-newsletter-sign-up-description" 
                        By entering your details, you are agreeing to Discover Wildlife  a class="link-copy" href="http:  www.immediate.co.uk terms-and-conditions " terms and conditions  a . You can unsubscribe at any time.
                      p 
