 p  em Equus grevyi  em   p 
 p Yes  p 
 p Semi-arid and scrub grasslands  p 
 p Lion, leopard  p 
 p Grasses, fruit, shrubs and bark   p 
 p Somalia, Ethiopia and Northern Kenya  p 
 p 60 inches at shoulder  p 
 p Male 1,000 lb. br 
Female 900 lb.  p 
 p Very narrow, close stripes - even on mane. Stripes extend down legs, but not around stomach  p 
 p 13 months  p 
 p 1 foal  p 
 p Any month  p 
 p 20 years  p 
 p No permanent bonds between adults; only strong bond is mare and foal; do not form permanent herds  p 
 p This zebra is named for Jules Grevy, a French president who received one from the king of Ethiopia as a gift in the 1880s. It is the largest and most solitary of the wild equids. It is set apart from horses and asses, its two closest relatives, by its stripes and untamable wild nature.  p 
 p Grevy’s zebras are often seen on the open plains with other grazing animals, such as wildebeest, ostrich and antelopes. They can sprint 40 mph.  p 
 p Grevy’s zebras have long, narrow heads with large, round ears to give them a mule-like appearance. Their ears can be rotated to determine the location of sound. Grevy’s zebras have good eyesight with binocular vision in the front and can probably see in color.   p 
 p Their sense of taste is also keen and can detect slight changes in the quality of their food. They spend about 60 percent of the day grazing and up to 80 percent when food becomes scarce.  p 
 p The zebra stallions live alone within large territories of up to four square miles, in which they claim exclusive mating rights. They mark their territories with dung. Two males will compete for an area by having pushing contests, rearing and biting.   p 
 p They form temporary relations with females in estrus that happen to wander through their territory. Once the foals are born, the mares stay within about a mile of water and are almost always with the territorial stallion. The females have a dominance hierarchy as well, but engage in mutual grooming to establish relationships with each other.  p 
 p Within an hour of birth, a foal can run with the rest of the herd and can recognize its mother with sight and smell. Each zebra has a unique stripe pattern.  p 
 p Although they tend to be very aggressive toward other animals, Grevy’s zebras are beneficial to other wild grazers because they clear off the tops of coarse grasses that are difficult for other herbivores to digest.  p 
 p Major threats to wild Grevy’s zebra are introduced livestock that compete for grazing land and hunting for zebra skins. There are thought to be fewer than 6,000 left in the wild. The Grevy’s zebra was one of Fossil Rim’s first Species Survival Plan (SSP) animals.  p 
 p class="animal-title" Waterbuck  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Waterbuck are found in southeastern, central and western Africa. When exposed to a high level of human activity, they will become almost completely nocturnal, only...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Southern White Rhinoceros  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Poaching remains the greatest threat to the white rhinoceros. Its horn is used in Asia for traditional medicines and, more recently, as a status symbol...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Scimitar-Horned Oryx  p 
 p 			  p 
 p The scimitar-horned oryx once again roams the grasslands of Chad. Extinct in the wild in the late 1980s, 23 animals were released to native habitat...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Sable  p 
 p 			  p 
 p The sable antelope gets its name from the Russian word for “black.” Its coat is short and glossy for females and young sable. Their coloration...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Roan  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Roan, the fourth-largest antelopes in Africa, are usually active in the morning, late afternoon and evening. The roan is associated with woodland savannas, but is...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Ostrich  p 
 p 			  p 
 p The ostrich is the world’s largest living bird. Its weight, small wings and weak wing muscles combine to make it flightless. Ostriches use their wings...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Mountain Bongo  p 
 p 			  p 
 p The bongo, a striking coppery red antelope with white stripes, is shy and elusive. Most active at dusk and dawn, they will emerge at night...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Aoudad  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Aoudads, also known as Barbary sheep, are the only wild sheep in Africa. They were brought to the U.S. in the early 1900s for exhibition...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Greater Kudu  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Very large antelopes, the male kudu have thick, spiraled horns that can reach six feet in length. Sexually dimorphic, only the males have horns and...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Giraffe  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Giraffes are the tallest living land mammals, and although it looks like their hind legs are shorter, all four legs are almost the same length....  p 
 p class="animal-title" Cheetah  p 
 p 			  p 
 p The sleek cheetah is built for speed and can accelerate from 0-60 mph in seconds. However, it can run only 600 yards before it is...  p 
 p class="animal-title" African Spurred Tortoise  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Very little is known about African Spurred Tortoises in the wild due to lack of field research. They are solitary creatures that live in some...  p 
 p class="animal-title" Addra Gazelle  p 
 p 			  p 
 p Formerly one of the most prevalent Saharan gazelles, this antelope is the largest gazelle species....  p 
 p class="animal-title" Addax  p 
 p 			  p 
 p There are less than 100 addax in the wild. Formerly ranging over the entire Sahara Desert of Africa, four-wheel drive access to the desert and...  p 
 p Fossil Rim Wildlife Center is a not-for-profit 501(c)3 entity, specializing in captive breeding programs for indigenous and exotic endangered and threatened species.  p 
