 p From the Okavango to the Kalahari witness the stunning beauty of Botswana  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong  a href="http:  www.ulinda.com wp-content uploads 2009 04 Fighting-Zebras-Savuti-Nov06.tif"  img class="aligncenter size-full wp-image-718" title="Fighting Zebra's Savuti Nov 2006" src="http:  www.ulinda.com wp-content uploads 2009 04 Fighting-Zebras-Savuti-Nov06.tif" alt=""   a Weight and Height  strong  br 
males: wt 55 lb (250 kg), ht 51-56 in (127-140 cm) females: wt 484 (220 kg), ht 50-55 in (125-350 cm)  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Colour  strong  br 
white background with black stripes; patterns are different on every animal; patterns are much thicker and bolder in equatorial Grant’s or Boehm’s zebra. Burchell’s zebra do not have stripes on lower legs or belly.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong General Locations  strong  br 
In most areas from southeastern Sudan to South Africa and west to Angola, the Somali-Masai Arid Zone, Southern Savanna, and South West Arid Zone. The Plains or Burchell’s zebra can be seen in almost any national park or reserve.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Habitat  strong  br 
These zebras are one of the most successful herbivores in Africa because of their adaptation to many different kinds of grassland habitats. These zebras can generally be seen with wildebeest in habitats where both animals depend on the same food and water sources.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Activity  strong  br 
Burchell’s zebra are both diurnal and nocturnal, but are usually more active during the day. Zebras will graze alone for up to several hours at night, but move very little during that time. Some herds may travel as far as 10 mi (17 km) before choosing a new spot for the night.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Social Systems  strong  br 
In the zebra social system, harem masters will have mating rights with generally 2 to 6 mares and in most cases will stay with them for life. As long as the respected family stallion is strong enough to assert his rights, harem ownership of territory is quite safe. Home ranges can range in size from 11 sq. mi (30 sq. km) to over 232 sq. mi (600 sq. km). during migration. During mating seasons, up to 18 stallions will fight the herd’s stallion over one estrus filly until the strongest zebra wins, and ultimately wins the right to mate with her.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Reproduction  strong  br 
Breeding is generally year-round for most plains or Burchell’s zebra. However, the mating birth peak is during the early rainy season. Foals mature by the age of 3 or 3.5 years and then reproduce every 2 years thereafter.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Predators  strong  br 
Lion and hyaena.  p 
 p Ulinda Safari Trails, Jane Bettenay, P.O Box 156, Maun, Botswana.  p 
 p © Copyright 2011 Ulinda Safaris.  a href="http:  validator.w3.org check referer" Valid XHTML  a . Designed by Edge Three Sixty:  a href="http:  edgethreesixty.com services cms wordpress"  WordPress Developers  a   p 
