 p Want to unlock all the rare and unusual animals in Featherweight's addictive new auto-runner,  em Rodeo Stampede  em ? Here's our guide to doing just that.  p 
 p When you first play Rodeo Stampede, you'll only ever see Buffalo, Zebras, and Elephants.  p 
 p To add more animal species you must complete missions and other objectives, which will let you travel to new locations on the map screen.  p 
 p With each new location, new animals are added.  p 
 p However, that will only add the most basic version of that animal.  p 
 p To make other types of animal (such as an ostrich with a guitar or an elephant wearing a crown) spawn in the game you need to upgrade that animal's habitat. This costs money.  p 
 p For most animals, the first time you upgrade the habitat (level 1), some extra types of that animal will appear in the stampede. The last time you upgrade (level 8), even more animals will appear.  p 
 p They'll be rarer, and so less likely to appear.  p 
 p Most rare animals will only appear after you have travelled a long distance.  p 
 p Some animals are bosses. You can access these boss missions after finishing lots of missions.  p 
 p And some are secret, and will only appear after certain criteria have been met. Click through to find out how to get the lot:  p 
 p Ride for 750 metres on one buffalo to unlock this fiery beast.  p 
 p Jump on seven different species of animal, in one round, in the Savannah to get the Trojan Zebra  p 
 p Ride 2,000m in the Savannah and then jump onto the vulture on the large rock.  p 
 p Eat 30 animals while riding one lion to unlock this gourmet cat.  p 
 p Ride any Jungle animal for 2,000 meters and you'll be able to grab the Bunny Gator.  p 
 p Jump on seven animals in a now in the Jungle to have the Dhinoceros show up.  p 
 p For this alien cat, ride 7500m in the Jungle.  p 
 p Land a 100 metre jump from a Toucan to find the Threecan.  p 
 p Reach 2,000 meters in a single round with one single animal on the Mountain. The eagle should make this a lot easier.  p 
 p Using one single yak, smash 10 animals in a single round. The Gearpunk Yak will appear and you will be able to befriend it.  p 
 p Jump 25 to 50 metres off a cliff in the mountains and then land on an animal to make Robin Should appear.  p 
 p Ride 8 different animals in a row on the Mountain stage.  p 
 p Crash into 3 animals with a Wombat.  p 
 p Ride 8 different animals in a row in the Outback stage.  p 
 p Crash into an outhouse or windmill.  p 
 p This flame-coloured Drop Bear can be found among burning trees past the 2,000m mark.  p 
 p Ride 8 different animals in a row in the Tundra stage.  p 
 p Jump onto 4 Rabbits in a row  p 
 p Ride a Fox for over 1,500m.  p 
 p Appears from cliffs at some point past 2,000m - not guaranteed, but fairly common.  p 
 p Can be unlocked after Velociraptor habitat is level 5 - otherwise secret.  p 
 p Crash into a T-Rex while riding an Ankylosaurus.  p 
 p Can be unlocked after T-Rex habitat is level 5 - otherwise secret. It doesn’t skip leg day - could that be a hint?  p 
 p Ride 8 different animals in a row in the Jurassic stage.  p 
 p Eat 10 shrubs while riding the same Stegosaurus.  p 
