 p At the Oklahoma City Zoo this Endangered Species Day, Friday, May 18 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., learn how you can join the fight to save species from extinction.  p 
 p The easiest way to aid in saving species is by becoming mindful of the challenges animals face in the wild. Through awareness days, such as Endangered Species Day, the OKC Zoo highlights species that need our help. Guests can participate in hands-on activities, chat with caretakers and educators, and leave knowing that they can make a difference in the lives of animals near and far.  p 
 p  u Endangered Species Activities at the OKC Zoo  u   p 
 p Issue:                     Chimps and Coltan (Habitat loss, poaching) br 
Activity:                Termite mound fishing br 
Location:              Great EscApe  p 
 p Issue:                     Palm Oil and Tigers Asian Cats (Habitat loss) br 
Activity:                Ocelot masks, Tiger cutout selfies, paw print stamp voting br 
Location:              Cat Forest  p 
 p Issue:                     Monk Seal (Ocean trash and limited food) br 
Activity:                Assemble Hawaiian-style leis br 
Location:              Sea Lion habitat by entrance to presentation pool  p 
 p Issue:                     Bali Mynah (Pet trade and habitat loss) br 
Activity:               Coloring station for kids br 
Location:              Pachyderm Building  p 
 p Issue:                     Rhinos (Poaching) br 
Activity:                Bowling for Rhinos br 
Location:              Judy’s Garden – Across from Rhino Habitat  p 
 p Issue:                     Grevy’s Zebra (endangered, population decline) br 
Activity:                Pin the stripes on the zebra br 
Location:              Zebra Habitat  p 
 p Issue:                     Oklahoma Vulnerable Endangered Species br 
Activity:                Informational Booklet br 
Location:              Big Rivers Building at Oklahoma Trails Habitat  p 
 p We really couldn’t do it without you, and you may be helping without even realizing it! If you’ve ever rounded up to the nearest dollar, you’ve participated in the Zoo’s  a href=" roundup" Round Up for Conservation  a  program. These funds directly impact animals in need by funding emergency conservation initiatives, such as the plight of the radiated tortoise in Madagascar, or helping researchers study animals in the wild. It's little actions—like donating money, recycling or using reusable products—that make a huge impact on our planet.  p 
 p -Erica Buckwalter, Supervisor of Informal Education Programs  p 
 p Rhino and Zebra Photos: Andrea Johnson  p 
 p  span © 2009 - 2019 Oklahoma City Zoo.  All Rights Reserved.  span  •  span 2101 NE 50th St. Oklahoma City, OK 73111  span  •  span  a href="tel:405-424-3344" 405-424-3344  a   span   p 
