 p This site uses cookies to enhance your experience. By using our website you consent to our use of cookies.     a href="  www.rzss.org.uk cookie-policy" target="_blank" Find out more  a     a href="#" title="OK" class="accept" I Agree  a   p 
 p Book tickets  span The fastest way to visit  span   p 
 p Day planner  span Make the most of your visit  span   p 
 p class="sub-text" 
Esther Conway from WildCats Conservation Alliance will explain the threats that Sumatran tigers face and how zoos are working together to protect the largest wild population in the Kerinci Seblat National Park, Sumatra.
  p 
 p class="title arrow-wht" An evening with Wildcats Conservation Alliance  p 
 p Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences?  p 
 p How to book  span All the information you need to help you start planning your educational trip.  span   p 
 p Sponsorship Opportunities  span No two sponsorship packages are the same so we work with our sponsors to create a partnership that best suits their business needs.  span   p 
 p Corporate Support  span Help us make a difference   span   p 
 p Meet Goonaroo, Alinga and Tanami. Make your way through our eucalyptus garden, adorned with indigenous artwork before arriving at the internal viewing areas. Alinga will be the first to greet you as you enter. This is the best photo opportunity so don't forget your camera! The interpretation will reveal much of the hidden world of koalas, such as how a Koala's body works, what their threats are in the wild and the journey of a joey.  p 
 p  strong New Arrival  strong   p 
 p  span On the 18 January 2019 we were delighted to announce that a 6-month old koala joey has been seen peeking it's head out of mum, Alinga's pouch.   span  a data-id="15185" href=" news article 15185 koala-joey-peeks-out-at-edinburgh-zoo " title="Koala joey peeks out at Edinburgh Zoo" Click here to watch the video...  a   p 
 p  em * Please note that this exhibit operates on reduced opening hours, please ask on arrival for more details about availability.  em   p 
 p Enjoy a range of member benefits and visit us as many times as you like.   p 
 p Visit us. Love us. Adopt us.   p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.  p 
 p Registered charity number: SC004064  p 
