 p Munching on eucalypt leaves would kill most other mammals, but koalas have a large number of genes that enable them to tolerate their toxic diet.  p 
 p class="photo-captioned__information" 
 span class="credit" Photo:  span itemprop="copyrightHolder" 123RF  span   span 
  p 
 p However, the same genes also play a role in making some drugs used to treat sick and injured animals almost useless.  p 
 p This double-edged sword is just one of the discoveries to come from an Australian-led project that has sequenced the entire koala genome.  p 
 p The genetic blueprint is on par with the human genome, according to Rebecca Johnson of the Australian Museum Research Institute.  p 
 p "We've found over 26,000 genes," said Professor Johnson, who co-led an international consortium of scientists from seven countries.  p 
 p "We have sequenced and assembled the entire koala genome ... 3.5 billion base pairs, which is actually a little bit larger than the human genome."  p 
 p The genome provides insights into the koala's highly specialised diet, immune system, biodiversity and evolution, Professor Johnson and her colleagues report in the journal  i Nature Genetics  i .  p 
 p They said the information would guide conservation of the iconic animal, which is vulnerable to habitat loss, climate change and disease.  p 
 p "It's such an important animal for our country, it's an important ambassador for understanding why habitat needs to be protected," Prof Johnson said.  p 
 p Koalas are notoriously fussy about where they live and what they eat.  p 
 p In the couple of hours a day they are not asleep in the crook of a tree, they eat their way through about 600-800 grams of leaves.  p 
 p But not any leaves. They graze on only about 20 out of the 900 known species of eucalypt.  p 
 p They also almost exclusively rely on the leaves for water, seeking out leaves with at least 50 per cent water content, Prof Johnson said.  p 
 p class="photo-captioned__information" 
 span itemprop="caption" class="caption" Detoxification genes enable koalas to eat eucalyptus leaves.   span 
 span class="credit" Photo:  span itemprop="copyrightHolder" 123RF  span   span 
  p 
 p "Understanding how koalas choose their trees and why they choose their trees at the molecular level is linked to ensuring they have something to eat and live in," she said.  p 
 p Analysis of the genome shows koalas have lots of bitter taste receptors, as well as a duplication of what is known as a "water taste" gene.  p 
 p "This might be ... a way they sense water in the trees," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p They also have a large number of genes that produce enzymes that detoxify terpenes and phenolic compounds.  p 
 p "Everything needs detox [genes] but koalas seem to have them in much higher quantities," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p But there is a downside to this gene family, known as cytochrome P450 monooxygenase or CYP 450 genes.  p 
 p The same enzymes that detoxify substances in the leaves also rapidly break down anti-inflammatory pain relief drugs.  p 
 p "So giving [koalas] pain relief that uses these pathways is almost useless," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p The enzymes also effect the metabolism of antibiotics, said Peter Timms, of the University of the Sunshine Coast, who was also involved in the study.  p 
 p "They break down antibiotics faster than we can give them. Then as we give them higher doses we then upset their gut flora bacteria," Professor Timms said.  p 
 p Antibiotics are used to treat chlamydia, a bacterial disease that can cause blindness, sterility and urinary tract infections.  p 
 p It appears that joeys may gain some protection against the disease from their mother's milk.  p 
 p The team identified a number of genes involved in fine turning the composition of milk, including proteins that may have antimicrobial properties.  p 
 p Chlamydia affects all populations of koalas, Prof Timms said, whose team has been working on a vaccine for the infectious disease and the koala retrovirus.  p 
 p The retrovirus, which has been linked to cancer, seems to make chlamydia worse.  p 
 p "It's actually moving through the koala population in front of our eyes," Prof Timms said.  p 
 p "The southern koalas aren't infected with it yet whereas the northern ones are."  p 
 p Developing treatments for these diseases has been challenging because little was known about the animal's immune system.  p 
 p "[The koala genome is] revolutionising both what we can understand but also what we can do," Professor Timms said.  p 
 p The sequencing using state-of-the-art technology identified not only all the immune gene families and their functions, but provided insights into how the retrovirus has colonised the animal's DNA.  p 
 p "For the first time we've been able to see how many times a virus is inside a single animal," Professor Timms said.  p 
 p "And it's not all equal, there are different strains in there."  p 
 p He said the level of detail will enable them to identify which strains are more dangerous so they can tweak tests and vaccines to target the virus.  p 
 p "We couldn't do that before because we didn't know what to look for."  p 
 p The genome will help Professor Timms and his team monitor how different animals respond to vaccines.  p 
 p "Now we've got that information and we can start doing proper genetic studies on the animals," he said.  p 
 p The project, which took five years to complete, is based on samples taken from three koalas: Pacific Chocolate and Bilbo, two female koalas who succumbed to chlamydia; and a male called Birke, who was mauled by a dog.  p 
 p "Those are pretty emotive moments where you sit and watch an animal being necropsied (examined after death)," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p "It reminds you about why we're doing what we're doing."  p 
 p The genetic information from the koalas, which were from northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, provided insights into the diversity of populations right around Australia.  p 
 p "We found relatively high levels of genetic diversity in the Queensland and New South Wales population and much less diversity in Victorian and South Australian population," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p But, she said, Queensland populations were expected to drop by up to 50 per cent and New South Wales populations by 30 per cent within 20 years.  p 
 p "Conservation measures are fairly urgent in that case because those are the populations that have all the diversity," she said.  p 
 p Major threats to diversity include habitat fragmentation caused by clearing and urbanisation.  p 
 p "If you have no diversity, you increase the chances of inbreeding and lots of genetic diseases can come about from a very low diversity population," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p The genome has been put on public databases for others to study.  p 
 p "Researchers all over the world can now use it to study unique features or characteristics of the koala genome, or they can use it for comparative genomics," Professor Johnson said.  p 
 p "This is only the fourth marsupial to be sequenced - and we have many marsupials in Australia."  p 
 p class="copyright"  small Copyright ©  span itemprop="copyrightYear" 2018  span ,  span itemprop="copyrightHolder" Radio New Zealand  span   small   p 
 p for ad-free news and current affairs  p 
 p  a class="btn btn-social btn-rss" href=" rss world.xml"  i class="icon-rss"   i World RSS  a   p 
 p  a class="btn btn-social btn-twitter" href="https:  twitter.com rnz_news"  i class="icon-twitter"   i Follow RNZ News  a   p 
