 p class="published" 
        Posted 
     span class="timestamp" 
      November 13, 2015 12:31:24
      span 
        p 
 p Australia is blessed to have such a unique range of wildlife, and there are not many animals more iconic than the Phascolarctos cinereus — commonly known as the koala.  p 
 p But being a worldwide symbol for Australia does not mean life is easy for the tree-dwelling marsupial.  p 
 p While there are plenty of devoted people committed to helping koalas, one of the biggest challenges experts face is simply knowing where they are and in what sort of numbers.  p 
 p The  a href="http:  koalacount.org.au " target="_self" title="" Koala Count 2015  a  aims to solve this problem by calling on citizen scientists across the country to utilise their local knowledge in conjunction with a smartphone app.  p 
 p Koala Count coordinator Helen Smith said there were many benefits to blending crowdsourcing with ecological research.  p 
 p "There's an excitement around reporting what's in your backyard," she said.  p 
 p "When people feel that these are their koalas in their backyard, they have an instant connection."  p 
 p Another benefit to opening the research to anyone with a smartphone is the sheer number of people who can help time-poor scientists.  p 
 p Ms Smith admitted that although an army of enthusiastic wannabe ecologists was no substitute for dedicated researchers working in the field, they did play a vital role in helping to pinpoint where efforts should be focused.  p 
 p "Citizen science has the role of collecting observational data. We can infer things from these patterns and it's the first step in researching these things," she said.  p 
 p The largest threat koalas face is dwindling habitat.  p 
 p While there are some parts of the country, in particular Victoria, where koala populations are deemed too high, the marsupial is listed as a vulnerable species in Queensland, New South Wales and the ACT.  p 
 p Because koalas have such specific dietary and habitat requirements, urban development can be devastating to them as they cannot just move to another area.  p 
 p Along with habitat loss, there is the threat of road kill, attacks from other animals like dogs, and koalas are also susceptible to drought conditions.  p 
 p    p 
 p Ms Smith has been pleased with the number of people who have already uploaded their koala sightings via the  a href="http:  naturemapr.com " target="_self" title="" NatureMapr  a  app.  p 
 p She said she was now eager to put the information to good use.  p 
 p "We want to share the data with people who can make management decisions and put pressure on the Government to make sure they're making the right decisions," Ms Smith said.  p 
 p Developed by the  a href="http:  www.npansw.org.au " target="_self" title="" National Parks Association of NSW  a , the Koala Count can almost be considered a high-tech update to how the organisation began in 1967.  p 
 p "We started as a bushwalking club, so we've always been interested in using bushwalkers for data collection," Ms Smith said.   p 
 p "The engagement acts as the fuel for the organisation and it's what keeps our members excited."  p 
 p Helping with the Koala Count 2015 is simple — all you need to do is download the free NatureMapr app, go for a walk and be ready to take a photo of any koalas you see.  p 
 p By uploading the images, Ms Smith and her team are able to turn your sighting into science.  p 
 p "We want to make it as easy as possible for anyone to get involved," Ms Smith said.   p 
 p "Local knowledge is invaluable — if you've lived in your area for years, you just notice things and you're aware. We want to do it before it's too late."  p 
 p The  a href="http:  koalacount.org.au " target="_self" title="" Koala Count 2015  a  runs until November 22 across Australia.  p 
 p    p 
 p class="topics" 
	 strong Topics:  strong 
	
	 a href=" news topic marsupials" marsupials  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animal-science" animal-science  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic environmental-impact" environmental-impact  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic ecology" ecology  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animals" animals  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic social-media" social-media  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic internet-culture" internet-culture  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic sydney-2000" sydney-2000  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic australia" australia  a 
	
  p 
 p 
        





 a href=" news nsw " class="button" 
 span  strong 
  More
  strong  stories from New South Wales  span   a 

  p 
 p If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news,  a href=" news contact tip-off " target="_self" title="" contact the ABC  a .  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.abc.net.au news about backstory " target="_self" title="" ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  about.abc.net.au how-the-abc-is-run what-guides-us abc-editorial-standards " target="_self" title="" Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.  a   p 
 p class="title" 
        Huw Parkinson  p 
 p Insiders' Huw Parkinson captures the last moments of "the Fixer" as he prepares to depart, bidding farewell to his good friend Vader.  p 
 p By pulling the panic lever, Tony Abbott gives Zali Steggall and Bill Shorten easy wins with the election looming, writes Michelle Grattan.  p 
 p class="title" 
        By South Asia correspondent  a href=" news siobhan-heanue 166962" target="_self" title="" Siobhan Heanue  a   p 
 p He went to India 20 years ago for a holiday, but never came home. Now he's a cannabis-smoking holy man who can no longer remember his name.   p 
 p class="title" 
        By  a href=" news robert-burton-bradley 9925634" target="_self" title="" Robert Burton-Bradley  a   p 
 p Mandarin and calligraphy lessons, or agents of foreign influence and attacks on academic freedom — a rising chorus of concern in the West has put a spotlight on China's Confucius Institutes in Australia.  p 
 p 
           small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small 
          p 
 p 
           small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small 
          p 
