 p  strong Have you always wanted to get up close and personal with a koala or a kangaroo? We've got you covered. You'll get the perfect opportunity to meet these iconic Australian animals on a number of our tours, and with over 60 species of kangaroos in Australia, you'll be sure to bump into one!   strong   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 0.9em;" Check out our favourite wildlife destinations and start planning your next adventure down under.  span   p 
 p  a style="font-family: Lato, 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 0.9em; font-weight: normal;" href="http:  www.cavershamwildlife.com.au " Caversham Wildlife Park  a  span style="color: #000000; font-family: Lato, 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 0.9em; font-weight: normal;"  is one of Perth’s most interesting tourist attractions and it showcases many of Australia’s unique native animals. You’ll visit the park on our   span  a style="font-family: Lato, 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 0.9em; font-weight: normal;" href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours western-australia perth 1-day-pinnacles-adventure-tour " 1-Day Pinnacles Tour  a  span style="color: #000000; font-family: Lato, 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 0.9em; font-weight: normal;" , giving you the perfect opportunity to pat the adorable Koalas and feed the incredible Western Grey Kangaroos!  span   p 
 p Our  a href=" en specials east-coast-packages " East Coast Tours  a  visit the amazing Noosa National Park, which is home to around 30 resident Koalas and a number of impressive native Kangaroos. The eucalyptus trees on the Noosa National Park walking track are the perfect place to spot a Koala!  p 
 p    p 
 p Our  a href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours new-south-wales sydney 1-day-blue-mountains-tour " 1-Day Blue Mountains Tour  a  features a visit to the a href="http:  www.featherdale.com.au "  Featherdale Wildlife Park  a . Featherdale is home to the Eastern Grey Kangaroo and you’ll be allowed to feed these wonderful marsupials as they free roam the park! Then head over to the koala sanctuary to meet the cuddly creatures and take some photos!  p 
 p    p 
 p The Otway Coast on the Great Ocean Road is one of the best places in Australia to see Koalas in the wild. Our  a href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours victoria melbourne 1-day-great-ocean-road-tour " 1-Day Great Ocean Road  a  Tour will stop for a photo opportunity and a chance to see the wild Koalas in their natural habitat.  p 
 p    p 
 p Between  a href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours northern-territory darwin 9-day-4wd-darwin-to-broome-tour " Darwin and Broome  a  you’ll see the native red kangaroos – much larger than regular sized!  p 
 p Located southwest of Adelaide, the name speaks for itself! This beautiful island is teeming with native Australian wildlife, and the star of the show is obviously the kangaroo! On our  a href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours south-australia adelaide 2-day-kangaroo-island-wildlife-tour " 2-Day Kangaroo Island Wildlife Tour  a  you’ll stay overnight at a farmhouse at Flinders Chase, surrounded by Koalas, Kangaroos, Possums and the occasional Echidna.  p 
 p On our  a href=" en tours small-group-guided-tours victoria melbourne 1-day-phillip-island-penguin-parade-tour " Phillip Island 1 Day Tour  a  from Melbourne, you’ll visit the  a href="http:  www.moonlitsanctuary.com.au " Moonlit Sanctuary Wildlife Conservation Park  a . This eco certified sanctuary is full of native Australian animals for you to get up close and personal with. Hand feed Kangaroos and get a photo with a beautiful endangered Koala.  p 
 p    p 
 p More details on where to see Native Australian Wildlife on our tours  a href=" en about-us travel-info old-articles where-to-see-native-australian-animals-in-australia " here  a . Including Penguins, Seals and Platypus.   p 
 p  strong About Real Aussie Adventures  strong  br  a href=" en about-us terms-and-conditions "  span class="ss-broken" Terms and Conditions  span   a  br  a href=" en about-us privacy-policy " Privacy Policy br   a  a href=" en about-us cookie-policy " Cookie Policy  a  br  a href=" en about-us travel-insurance " Travel Insurance br   a  span class="ss-broken"  a href=" en about-us contact " Contact Us br   a   span  a href=" assets Uploads RAG-2017-Brochure-PDF.pdf" Brochure 2018 2019  a   p 
 p  a href=" assets Uploads RAG-2019-Brox-LR.pdf" Brochure 2019  2020  a   p 
 p  a href=" en about-us agents " Agents  a   p 
 p  strong Cool Stuff  strong  br  a href=" en destination-guide kakadu-national-park-tours " Kakadu National Park Tours  a  br  a href=" en destination-guide east-coast-tours " East Coast Tours  a  br  a href=" en destination-guide uluru-ayers-rock-tours " Uluru (Ayers Rock) Tours  a  br  a href=" en tour-themes 4wd-tours " 4WD Tours  a  br  a href=" en tour-themes day-tours " Day Tours  a  br  a href=" en tour-themes groups-charters " Group and Charter Tours of Australia  a   p 
 p  a href=" en specials australia-adventure-tours-on-sale " Tour Specials  a   p 
 p    p 
 p At Real Adventure Group we are a collection of independently-owned touring companies in Australia, New Zealand, South East Asia and Fiji. We are dedicated experts at small group touring and activity itineraries.  p 
 p Each tour operator in our group has been providing specialized experiences for their customers for the last 5-15 years.  p 
 p We live and breathe our product so that authenticity and attention to detail are second-to-none, just like your travel experiences should be. Read our blog here to find out more about us and where we have recently traveled.  p 
 p Like any good travel expert, our job is to make your adventure awesome. To make sure you have an uncomplicated and unforgettable experience. To be in the background making it easy for the real hero - you - to enjoy the magic of the destination you are visiting.    p 
 p    p 
