 p On this page you’ll find an Australian animals list that includes not only the country’s most famous animals, but also many of its lesser-known species.  p 
 p There are pictures and facts about each animal, plus links for you to follow if you want to find out more about a particular species. span id="more-895"   span   p 
 p There’s too much Australian wildlife for it to all fit on one page! Once you’ve seen the amazing animals on this page, check out these other awesome Active Wild lists …  p 
 p If you like this page, feel free to share it on social media using the buttons at the top of the page!  p 
 p Australia is a big country with many different animal habitats. Australia’s deserts, rainforests, reefs, swamps, bushlands and mountains provide homes for many different types of animal.  p 
 p Many of Australia’s animals are ‘ strong endemic’  strong  to the country. This means that they are only found in Australia, and nowhere else on Earth.  p 
 p The main reason for this is because Australia is surrounded by sea, and isolated from the rest of the world. Many Australian animals have evolved on their own, and haven’t been able to spread to other countries or continents.  p 
 p Australia is particularly well known for its  strong marsupials  strong ,  p 
 p Marsupials are mammals whose young – known as ‘ strong joeys  strong ’ – are raised in special pouches in the mother’s body. Although marsupials are also present in the Americas, there are many more species found in Australia.  p 
 p Many of Australia’s most famous animals, such as kangaroos, wallabies, and koala bears, are marsupials, and naturally they’re all on this list!  p 
 p We’ve also included other famous Australian animals, such as crocodiles, dingoes and emus, together with many animals that are just as amazing, but maybe not quite as well-known.  p 
 p However, if you’re an Australian wildlife expert, then you should have heard of most, if not all, of these animals.  p 
 p If you’re not an Australian wildlife expert … you soon will be!  p 
 p Our Australian animals list is by no means definitive, and we’ll be adding new species regularly!  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-909" class="wp-caption-text" Bandicoot – Click the picture to find out more about these small marsupials.  p 
 p Bandicoots are marsupials that are endemic to Australia and New Guinea. (As we saw above, if an animal is ‘endemic’ to an area, then it isn’t found anywhere else.)  p 
 p There are over 20 species of bandicoot – most are rabbit-sized, and all have long legs, thin tails and pointed noses. Bandicoots are omnivores that forage for food in their bushland habitat.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-911" class="wp-caption-text" Bilby – Click image to find out more!  p 
 p Bilbies are small marsupials that are well adapted for life in a desert environment. They have strong legs and claws for burrowing and finding food. Their long tongues help them to forage for seeds, insects and bulbs.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-912" class="wp-caption-text" Black Swan  p 
 p Black swans are elegant birds with black feathers and bright red bills. Black swans inhabit wetlands across Australia. They eat plants and algae, and use their long necks to find food.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-913" class="wp-caption-text" Cane Toad  p 
 p Many Australians would rather the cane toad was not on a list of Australian animals! Cane toads secrete poison from behind their ears as a defence against predators.  p 
 p The cane toad is an invasive species in Australia and has spread rapidly across the country since its introduction in the 1940s. Cane toads are a threat to many native Australian animals, who fall ill after eating the toads.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-914" class="wp-caption-text" Cassowary: click the image to find out more!  p 
 p Cassowaries are large, flightless birds. There are three species of cassowary; only the Southern Cassowary is found in Australia.  p 
 p Cassowaries are fast runners, and they can also use their powerful legs and clawed feet as weapons.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-915" class="wp-caption-text" There are two types of crocodile found in Australia: the Freshwater Crocodile, and the larger Saltwater Crocodile. Click the image to learn about saltwater crocodiles.  p 
 p There are two types of crocodile found in Australia: the Freshwater Crocodile, and the larger Saltwater Crocodile.  p 
 p Both are dangerous animals, with armour-plated skin and strong jaws full of sharp teeth. Crocodiles are ambush predators: they lie in wait for their prey to draw near before attacking with explosive speed and power.  p 
 p Saltwater crocodiles are not only the world’s largest reptiles … they’re also the world’s largest land predators!  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-916" class="wp-caption-text" Dingo  p 
 p The dingo is a wild dog that lives in the deserts, grasslands and forests of Australia. It is a subspecies of the gray wolf.  p 
 p Dingoes play an important role in indigenous culture, and feature in stories and ceremonies. Depictions of dingoes have been found in aboriginal stone carvings.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-917" class="wp-caption-text" Dugong  p 
 p Dugongs are closely related to manatees. The dugong has a unique snout that is shaped downwards as an adaptation to feed in seagrass habitats. Dugongs can live for up to 70 years, and in the past have been hunted for meat and oil.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-919" class="wp-caption-text" Echidna  p 
 p Echidnas are members of a very strange group of animals called ‘Monotremes’ – mammals that lay eggs.  p 
 p Echidnas are also known as ‘spiny anteaters’, but – although their diet consists of ants and termites – they are not related to the anteaters of the Americas.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-920" class="wp-caption-text" Emu  p 
 p Emus are large, flightless birds that are able to run at high speeds thanks to their long legs. Emus use their sharp claws and webbed feet to defend themselves against aggressors.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-7866" class="wp-caption-text" Flatback sea turtle. Photo by Lyndie Malan (Own work) [ a href="https:  creativecommons.org licenses by-sa 3.0" target="_blank" rel="noopener" CC BY-SA 3.0  a ]  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-921" class="wp-caption-text" Frill-necked Lizard  p 
 p The frill-necked lizard is found mainly in the northern tropical regions of Australia. The species gets its name from the large ruff of skin around its neck.  p 
 p When the lizard feels threatened it opens its ruff out like an umbrella. This impressive display makes the lizard look much larger (and more frightening) than it actually is.  p 
 p The brightly-coloured ruff is connected to the lizard’s jaw bone.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-922" class="wp-caption-text" Great White Shark – Click on the photo for more information about sharks.  p 
 p One of the great ocean predators, great white sharks can grow to up to 6 metres in length. These big fish prey upon seals, sea turtles, other fish, and sea birds. Great white sharks sometimes come close to land and have been known to attack people.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-5833" class="wp-caption-text" Inland Taipan – click photo for more information  p 
 p The inland taipan is the world’s most venomous snake. Luckily it’s only found in uninhabited areas and doesn’t have an aggressive nature.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-924" class="wp-caption-text" No list of Australian animals would be complete without the Kangaroo!  p 
 p No list of Australian animals would be complete without the kangaroo! There are over 30 million of these leaping marsupials in Australia.  p 
 p Kangaroos travel by jumping rather than walking, and their tails and legs are specially developed to help them do this.  p 
 p Kangaroos, like many of Australia’s most famous animals, are  strong marsupials  strong . Marsupials are ‘pouched mammals’. After being born their babies – known as ‘joeys’ – climb up into special pouches in their mothers’ bodies. Here the joeys continue to grow for several more months before being able to jump around by themselves!  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-926" class="wp-caption-text" Koala  p 
 p With a big nose, fluffy ears, and a smooth grey coat, the koala is a very recognisable creature. These marsupials spend most of their lives sleeping and digesting eucalyptus leaves. These leaves contain little in the way of nutrients, and koalas spend up to 20 hours a day sleeping in order to conserve energy.  p 
 p Koalas are sometimes called ‘koala bears’, but they are not members of the bear family.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-927" class="wp-caption-text" Kookaburra  p 
 p If you’ve ever thought someone was laughing at you in the Australian bush don’t worry, it was probably just a kookaburra; their call sounds like human laughter. Kookaburras are a kind of kingfisher. They have long beaks and brown and white feathers, with flecks of bright blue in their wings.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-928" class="wp-caption-text" Numbat  p 
 p The numbat is a small creature that looks like a cross between a rat and cat. The numbat has a reddish-yellow coat with stripes across its back, and a fuzzy tail. Numbats use their pointed muzzles to forage in the dirt for termites, which they scoop up with their long tongues.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-929" class="wp-caption-text" Platypus  p 
 p Could the platypus be the world’s weirdest creature? With the bill of a duck, the tail of a beaver, and the feet of an otter, it’s a very strange-looking animal.  p 
 p The platypus is a mammal, but lays eggs rather than giving birth to its young. Platypuses have waterproof fur that allows them to spend most of their time in the water.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-930" class="wp-caption-text" Possum  p 
 p There are many kinds of possum living in Australia. These small-to-medium-sized nocturnal marsupials and usually live in or around trees. The Western Pygmy possum is the smallest possum in the world, with a body length of only 6.5cm. The common Brush Tail possum is the biggest, often as large as a domestic cat.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-931" class="wp-caption-text" Learn more about this cute little critter by clicking the picture!  p 
 p Around the size of a pet cat, the quokka is a herbivorous marsupial. Quokkas look like miniature kangaroos, and their curious nature and charming looks make them popular with people. The quokka uses its two front paws to forage with, and eats leaves and berries.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-932" class="wp-caption-text" Quoll: Click image to find out more about these marsupial predators.  p 
 p The quoll is a carnivorous marsupial that eats rabbits, lizards, and small birds. Quolls have brown coats that are marked with white rings. Quolls are nocturnal, and are often found in trees.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-933" class="wp-caption-text" Sugar Glider – Click image to learn about this animal.  p 
 p The Sugar Glider has flaps of skin between its arms and legs. These act as wings, and allow the sugar glider to jump from trees and glide through the air.  p 
 p The sugar glider is an omnivore (i.e. it eats both meat  em and  em  plants). Its diet includes insects, leaves and eucalyptus sap.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-934" class="wp-caption-text" Tasmanian Devil  p 
 p This carnivorous marsupial makes a distinctive screeching sound when feeding, hence its name, which is often shortened to just ‘devil’.  p 
 p The Tasmanian devil’s survival is currently threatened by the spread of a killer disease that now affects as much as 80% of its population. Because of this, the Tasmanian devil is classified as ‘endangered’.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-7442" class="wp-caption-text" Thorny Devil  p 
 p This fearsome-looking lizard is found in the dry inland regions of Australia. Despite its aggressive appearance, the thorny devil is only dangerous if you happen to be an ant (it eats several thousand ants every day).  p 
 p The thorny devil is only found in Australia. It has grooves in its skin that channel moisture to its mouth, and a false head to confuse predators!  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-935" class="wp-caption-text" Wallaby  p 
 p Wallabies are closely related to the larger kangaroo. Wallabies, like kangaroos, are macropods, and have powerful legs for jumping. There several different types of wallaby, and they range greatly in size and habitat preference.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-936" class="wp-caption-text" Wombat – click image to find out more about this creature.  p 
 p With strong claws and rat-like teeth, wombats are well adapted for their burrowing lifestyle. Their pouch even faces backwards in order to protect the new-born young from getting dirt flicked in their eyes. Wombats are nocturnal creatures and stay in their burrows when the sun is too hot. They are most likely to be seen on cooler and overcast days.  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-937" class="wp-caption-text" Yabby  p 
 p The final species in our Australian animals list is the common yabby ( em Cherax destructor  em ). The yabby is a crayfish – a freshwater crustacean that resembles a small lobster. It is found in swamps, streams, lakes and rivers throughout much of east Australia.  p 
 p The yabby has also been introduced to Western Australia, where it is an invasive species, and a potential threat to other native crayfish.  p 
 p The yabby feeds on algae, plant material and animal remains. It is rated as Vulnerable by the IUCN.  p 
 p We hope that you have enjoyed reading this list of Australian animals. This is just a tiny section of the many different species found in Australia.  p 
 p You can find out more about Australia at Wikipedia  a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Australia" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" here  a . See the Wikipedia page on marsupials  a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Marsupial" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" here  a .  p 
 p Have we missed anyone? Let us know if your favourite Australian animals aren’t on this list and we’ll try to include them!  p 
 p Join the FREE Active Wild Newsletter List. A must for all animal fans. Awesome animal facts and information delivered direct to your inbox. It’s absolutely free, you can unsubscribe at any time, and we’ll never share information with anyone else. Click here for info:  a title="Click For Subscription Info" href="http:  eepurl.com bgX6OH" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" Subscribe to Active Wild  a .  p 
 p  a title="Sign up here" href="http:  eepurl.com bgX6OH" Click here to sign up!  a   p 
 p Click the picture above for more details &amp; to view  strong free  strong  sample pages!  p 
 p Click on the photo below to discover this week’s animal!  p 
 p   a title="Active Wild Pinterest" href="http:  www.pinterest.com activewild " target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Active Wild Pinterest  a   br   a title="Active Wild Facebook" href="https:  www.facebook.com ActiveWildOfficial" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Active Wild Facebook  a   p 
 p ActiveWild.com is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for website owners to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon stores.  p 
