 p itemprop="description" Koalas are generally considered as one of the most popular animals in Australia. This popularity of the Koalas in Australia is based upon the simplest of the facts that the animal is very marvelous, beautiful cute looking. Even though Koalas donot have too much rich history, the physical beauties of the Koalas have specifically made them highly popular among the people and inhabitants of Australia. Almost all the Australians are aware of the Koalas existence and they associate Koalas as one of the most native animals. It will not be wrong to consider Koalas to be one of the national symbols of Australia along with Kangaroos.  p 
 p itemprop="description" Another reason for the Koalas popularity in Australia is because of their living near the habitat of the people. Australia is the only country in the world where 80% to 90% of its population lives near the sea shores. Koalas live in the woods that are closely situated near such sea shores. Therefore, there is always a real chance of interaction in between the Koalas and people. Moreover, the presence of the Koalas within zoos and different kinds of animal sanctuaries is very common practice in Australia.  These are some of the core reason that Koalas have gained a considerable popularity and awareness among the people of Australia.  p 
 p itemprop="description" It will never be wrong to associate the Beauty of the Koalas with their popularity in Australia. Koalas are considered as more cute than the teddy bears by majority of the people. Instead many regard them as teddy bears but when separately placed people tend to pick Koalas first. This is the core reason that people fall in love with Koalas at the first sight. These animals are also very shy and they never harm or try to attack humans, therefore, the cuteness and the courtesy of the Koalas have significantly made these beautiful creatures as highly popular among the people living in Australia.   p 
 p itemprop="description" Koalas are popular among all the age groups. But among the children and kids Koalas are most popular. This fact can be estimated by the fact of availability of the Koala books for the children and kids. These books are full of fantasies about Koalas and further associate children and even their parents with Koalas. Koalas also enjoy protection from the Government legislations in Australia; however, there is still a need of further conservation of the Koalas and their habitat.  p 
 p itemprop="description" Finally, at one end where Koalas who are very famous among the people of Australia, on the other end Koalas are almost obscure to the rest of the world. Many people around the world have never heard or made aware about the Koalas. Moreover, they also do not know about the special characteristics of the Koalas and misunderstand them with some other animal upon being seen. Furthermore, in the third world countries where the knowledge is always lacking, Koalas have never been heard and holds a zero percent popularity. It is really strange that the animal which is 100% popular in one continent “Australia” is almost obscure to those areas which have population in Billions, despite at such a time, when the world has surpassed the state of global village.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are considered as one of the most popular animals in Australia. People are aware of them and they regard Koalas as one of the cutest animal as well. Koalas are also harmless and peaceful animals of Australia.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are more popular as compared to the Kangaroos within Australia. Even though Kangaroos are popular as Australia's national animals, but yet still Koalas still enjoy more popularity because of their cuteness and cuddliness.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have very fluffy and soft ears. Koalas' thick fur around the ears makes these ears very fluffy and smooth. Baby koalas have very fluffy and soft ears. Male Koalas have big fur around the ears.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have a very dominant nose. This nose is visible on their face much dominant and can be easily spotted. Koalas have black nose that is much like spooned shape. Koalas' nose also resembles like a trunk like shape.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' eyes resemble buttons. Usually these button shaped-eyes of the Koalas are very small. But these button shaped eyes of Koalas are very attractive indeed. Usually the eyes of the Koalas are black.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas can easily be recognized because of certain key features on their physical attributes. Koalas are recognizable through rounded ears, nose, and button-shaped eyes etc. Koalas color and fur also play a core role in terms of their recognition.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are witnessed as the largest tree climbing mammals (Arboreal) throughout the continent of Australia. Koalas are bigger than Tree Kangaroos and also Opossum as well which are also big Arboreal.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas vary in terms of their size. A Koala living in one geographical location will have a different size as compared to the Koalas living in another geographical location. The habitat typically leads Koalas to vary their sizes.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The Koalas from Queensland weigh around 9 kilograms. Queensland certainly does not offer an abundance food supply to the Koalas. Their weights and sizes are smaller because of the availability of the nutrition and vegetation available for them for ea  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas living in Australia's Victorian Territory are bigger and they weigh around 14 kilograms. Koalas within Australia's Victorian territory are specifically awarded by nature with a very high degree of food supply, thereby, helping them as being we  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The Koalas from Queensland and Victorian territory of Australia make a difference in terms of their size, fur coloring, and fur thickness. Koalas of Queensland are smaller. Koalas of Australia's Victorian Territory are bigger.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas are very huge. Minimum the Male Koalas weigh at least around 9 Kilograms and at maximum they can gain a weight of around 18 kilograms. Victorian Male Koalas are weigh more than Queensland Male Koalas.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Female Koalas are smaller in terms of weight and size. Female Koalas usually on average weight around 7 Kilograms. Female Koalas from Queensland weigh around 5 Kilograms. Female Koalas from Australia’s Victorian Territory weigh around 7 to 8 Kilogram  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas have more weight and size than the female Koalas. On average a Male Koala weighs around 11 Kilograms. A Female Koalas weigh around 6 to 9 Kilograms on average. Female and Male Koalas vary across Australia’s Victorian and Queensland territ  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas have loudest of voice among all the mammals across the continent of Australia. This loud voice helps the dominant male koalas to maintain their territory and also it helps them to attract female Koalas as well.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have been living on earth for millions of years ago. Some estimates indicate that Koalas have been living on earth about more than 30 million years ago.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' population throughout history experienced an increase and decrease. However, the 20th century marked the strongest population of Koalas that is still stable within the 21st century.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Throughout the history of more than 30 million years Koalas have gone through a very little or no Physical evolution. Many researchers argue that throughout all the ages Koalas have maintained their original physical existence.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The word Koala specifically means   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have at least 1 dozen native and aboriginal names and they all belong to Eastern Australia's native and aboriginal languages i.e., Kaola, Koalo, Coolah and Koobor etc.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Aboriginal and Native Australians recognized and specified Koalas after 10 years of their stay at the Australian continent. Before that Koalas were obscure to almost every human being in the world.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas, Koalas and Tough Life, Koalas Food Problem, Koalas and Tooth Decay, Koalas and Energy, Koalas and defense  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Tooth Decay is a common problem with Koalas. Their diet is abrasive. They have to grind the food. Moreover, their food contains intoxicants which are not good for the teeth during this grinding. The end result is that an elderly Koala loses its teeth  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' diet is so much toxic and poisonous that a normal mammal can't survive over this diet. Koalas' diet is full of cyanide chemicals and compounds. Yet still Koalas have very strong stomach and lever to manage all of these poisons.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' Food which is Eucalyptus leaves have relatively lower nutritional levels. Koalas fulfill all their nutritional value through these leaves. They have high water contents and lower calories. Koalas are very slow because of lower energy levels.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas possess lower energy levels and strength. This is the core reason that they spend most of their time while sleeping. Their food doesn't offer them much energy. More sleeping will help them to maintain energy levels. Koalas sleep 20 hours a day  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas and the Eucalyptus diet are inseperable. In fact; Eucalyptus is the lifeline for the Koalas' existence and without it they can't even survive.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have been occasionally spotted on other trees as well and eating different leaves rather than Eucalyptus. For example Koalas have been specifically located on the trees of Banksia, Acacia, Callitris, Hakea and Melaleuca.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' diet specifically includes Cyanides. Cyanides are abundantly available within the leaves of the Eucalyptus tree. If a normal mammal will eat those cyanides, it just simply can't survive.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas drink either no water or they were rarely spotted drinking water. Koalas' water requirements are primarily accomplished through their diet (Eucalyptus leaves) which comprises of 55% water. Koalas are only spotted drinking water under extreme c  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have developed advanced digestive mechanisms because the food which they consume is normally full of poison, toxicity and higher fiber. Koalas' stomach has a specially developed small cell that extracts nutrition.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description"  Koalas have slow Metabolism Rate. The food which the Koalas consume gets decomposed slowly once it reaches Koalas stomach because of slower metabolic activity. Slower Metabolism also helps Koalas to conserve their energy.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas sleep about more than 20 hours a day. Koalas have unusual sleeping habits. Koalas are also slow and sluggish. Koalas remain asleep to slow-down their metabolism rates and energy requirements.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas lack energy and strength. It wouldn't be wrong to consider them as defenseless. Koalas are slow and sluggish. The food which they consume offers very little level of energy and lower proteins.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' each tooth grows steadily, however, after some time, because of grinding and combination of poisons and toxicants in Koalas food, their tooth decay starts. Young Koalas chew better (no tooth decay) as compared to the mature and elderly Koalas  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Young Koalas are good chewers as compared to the mature and elderly Koalas. Elderly and mature Koalas are prone to tooth decay because of tooth grinding and the Eucalyptus leaves as their chosen food.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas usually die of Starvation. Sometimes, Koalas do not get enough food while other times, they are unable to chew the food rightly. The food which Koalas prefer contains very little nutritional value. There are many factors for Koalas' Starvation  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are also vulnerable to dehydration. The summers in Australia are very warm. This causes Koalas to be dehydrated. They rarely drink water and rely on their food for water. Moreover, deforestation is another reason for Koalas' dehydration.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Suffering from heat Exhaustion and Heat Strokes is also very common among the Koalas. During Heat Strokes Koalas feel higher body temperature, higher heart beat and Koalas lose their consciousness as well.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have one of the smallest brains among all the mammals on plaent earth. The volume of their brain is almost 60% of total skull volume.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas lack intellectual Skills and abilities. Koalas have small brain that makes a big impact on their intellectual abilities. However, Koalas have well developed senses that help them to survive freely in their environment.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have highly powerful sense of smell. Koalas can smell the Eucalyptus leaves from miles away. Koalas can differentiate between fresh leaves and the old leaves through smell. Koalas can also understand food's worth by smelling.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas do not like dry leaves. Dry leaves carry less water contents in them for Koalas. Koalas hate dry leaves because they do not have enough calories to help them maintain their energy levels. Finally dry leaves lack proper nutrition for the Koalas  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas love fresh Eucalyptus leaves. Koalas prefer fresh Eucalyptus leaves because they are good in nutrition and contain plenty of water inside them. Koalas prefer new leaves as compared to the older ones.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' preferences for the Eucalyptus leaves may vary during summers and winters. During Summers Koalas may prefer slightly more fluid and water contents within Eucalyptus leaves, while in winters they might prefer less fluid and water contents.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas prefer those Eucalyptus leaves that are higher within the nitrogen levels. It helps them to absorb more nutrients and it also provides them relatively higher nourishment as well.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas prefer to stay at big Eucalyptus trees. Moreover, Koalas like to stay at the top branches of the trees which are their favorite zone and spot at the threes. Top of the tree provide fresh leaves for the koalas.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas mostly prefer those areas which has a very good soil quality. Therefore, fertile lands are the core preference for spotting Koalas' habitat. Australia is usually dry, but wherever there are fertile lands, Koalas can be easily spotted there.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas consume about 600 grams to 800 grams of Eucalyptus leaves as their food per day. Male Koalas food consumption is greater than female ones. Also bigger Koalas consume more food than the smaller Koalas.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' food intake and consumption specifically depends upon their body size. The bigger the size of the Koalas, the greater will be its food consumption and vice versa. Smaller Koalas also eat less as compared to the bigger Koalas.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Lactating female Koalas consume more food as compared to the normal female Koalas. Lactating female Koalas require more energy and more nutrition to ensure milk supply for the young Koalas.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas consume more food during winters as compared to the summer seasons. The reasons being the Koalas have to fight against the cold and will require higher energy levels; therefore, more food is always helpful as it ensures nutrition.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Female Koalas are very selective in terms of their leaf selection and their food consumption as well. Female koalas only select those eucalyptus leaves that are abundant in nitrogen levels for greater nutrition and energy.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" A baby Koala is called Joey. Normally all the babies of the Marsupials are called as Joeys. Koala babies are called as joeys as well and koala Joey is a specific term that is being used for the baby Koalas.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" A Baby Koala Joey lives within her mother's pouch for normally around 9 to 10 months. During this period, this Koala Joey takes its mother milk from the pouch as well.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The Gestation period within female Koalas is normally around thirty six days. Sometimes it is normally around thirty four days as well. A Female Koala prefers more food consumption during the gestation period than during her normal days.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Behaviorally, female Koalas are capable of breeding every second year. However, if the food sources are more common and are available in abundance a female Koala mother can easily be ready for breeding within 1 year as well.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Baby Koala Joeys are very small in terms of their size when they are born. At the time of their birth baby Koala joeys are just around 19 millimeters. Baby Koala joeys at the time of a birth are usually comparative to the size of the bees and small c  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The weight of the Baby Koala Joey at the time of its birth is around 1 gram. However, some studies have shown that at the time of their birth the Koala Joeys weigh less than 1 gram as well.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" At the time of birth a Koala Joey has to travel from the Cloaca into the pouch of its mother. A Koala Joey slowly but steadily travels by itself with the help of its small limbs. It has a good sense of smell to identify its mother's pouch.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Newborn Koala Joeys have well established sense of smell. It helps Koala Joeys to spot their mothers' pouch and also teats as well to detect milk within the pouch.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" A newborn Koala Joey always keeps its head inside its mother's pouch for about 6 months. During this period of time, it never sees the outside environment at all. Round about the 6 month, it becomes powerful enough to come outside.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" A new born Koala Joey completes its development of body and shape after 6 months. A newborn Koala Joey is always under-developed at birth in terms of body development and shape.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas Joeys' Mother milk is a source of life for all the Koala Joeys. During the earlier days, this milk is full of carbohydrates, while latterly, this milk shows variation with more protein contents within it.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The first ever solid food which the baby Koala Joey consumes is called Pap. Apart from the Pap, the Koala Joey always relies on the milk as its core nourishment. Pap serves as first step for a Koala Joey for its transition from milk to a solid food.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Whenever, the baby Koala Joey reaches the age of 7 months, its tooth quickly start to emerge. By the time it research 1 year, it already develops perfect tooth for chewing eucalyptus leaves.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" By nature mother koalas are very kind hearted rather than aggressive for their young koala Joeys. Whenever a Koala Joey leaves, its mother, their mothers after 9 months, they become aggressive. Koalas are solitary, therefore, they have to be aggressi  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas living in the Brisbane ranges of Australia enjoy more forests, eucalyptus leaves and food sources. Because of this abundance of food source, these koalas are bigger in size, breeding is more fertile and the population level is relatively highe  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Queensland ranges in Australia offer relatively lower and lesser nutritional values for the Koalas. As a result of that the Koalas living in Queensland are relatively smaller, at stake and they also have lesser numbers too.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The average age of a koala is around 13 years. Female Koalas live more (15 Years) than the male koalas (12 years). Maximum recorded age of a koala is 21 years in captivity.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Female Koalas live more than male Koalas. This phenomenon is very strange as both the male and female koalas almost habitat on the same food within any territory. Therefore, it is very interesting to explore why female Koalas live more than male Koal  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The average age of the male Koalas is around 12 years. Victorian Male Koalas usually make it to 12 years, while the Queensland male koalas live for 10 year. Habitat and food availability can prove out to be decisive for male Koalas' average age.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" The average ages of the female Koalas are around 16 to 17 years. Female Koalas from Australia's Victorian ranges live more as compared to the female koalas from Queensland. At maximum female Koalas are known to live for more than 20 years as well.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" At maximum female Koalas can give birth at the age of 10 years. Usually the female Koalas start giving birth to the young koala joeys from their 3rd year of the life.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" During its entire lifespan, a female koala gives birth about seven (7) times. Maximum it can be eight (8) times and minimum it can give around three (3) births.    p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are vulnerable to many predators as well, but they are not that much bigger threat. Goannas, Dingoes, Eagles, hawks, Owls and Dogs are some of the key predators of the Koalas.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are also vulnerable to bush fires and koalas immediately die became of them. Bushfire can cause the Eucalyptus trees to burn rapidly resulting in koalas getting killed. Koalas are slow mover and possess weaker brain  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas possess a unique degree of social behavior which can be categorized on the basis of their vocalization, territorial interactions, scent marking, breeding and maternal life.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas are solitary animals and therefore, they live a solitary life. Baby Koala Joeys live with their mothers for 1 year, and after that their solitary life starts. They live alone on trees and eat on their own.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas possess different kinds of sleeping postures. Strategically Koalas sleep to conserve their energy or fight against weathers. That's why Koalas have different sleeping postures during summers, winters and during the dry seasons   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' fur which is very fluffy and it is specifically built to lose and get rid of rain water as much quickly as possible. It does not absorb any water, and therefore, helps the Koalas to lose the water as quickly as possible from their fur.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' resting and sleeping postures during the hot dry summers are different than that of the summers. During the summers Koalas sleep while lying over their stomach, sometimes in a reclining position and even lying over their back towards the tree  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" During the winter season Koalas have different sleeping postures than during the summer seasons. During the winter the Koalas find a perfect forked shape tree branches on the Eucalyptus. They sleep vertical position during winters.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas urinate more during the winter seasons as compared to the summer seasons. Since there is a lot of water within the Eucalyptus leaves, therefore, water is always in the diet of Koalas. Koalas urinate less in hot weather.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have highly specialized claws that specifically fit their natural requirements. Koalas' claws provide them massive grip and help them to tower the long eucalyptus leaves. Koalas have stronger claws.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' fur is nothing short of magical features for them. Koalas' furs help Koalas to actually regulate their body temperatures. Koalas fur comprises good insulation against extreme weather conditions. Koalas fund resist winds and rains   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas have highly specialized body mechanism to actually regulate their body temperatures. Koalas maintain their body temperatures with the help of their fur. Whether it is summer, winter or rainy seasons  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Food Consumption and feeding timings of the Koalas are around 1 hour to 3 hours a day. Koalas usually feed around the dawn and dusk timings. For the Rest of the time the Koalas usually sleep for almost 20 hours a day.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas always prefer those kinds of Eucalyptus leaves that grow at the top of the tree. These eucalyptus leaves which are at the top are fresh, have more nutrition, and offer more energetic calories for the Koalas   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Grooming is a very essential and important part of the Koalas' life. A Koala usually uses its back claws to groom its body. Grooming help Koalas to get rid of parasites and ticks on their bodies.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' life specifically indicates that Koalas are non-social animals. Koalas live a solitary life. Their interaction is very much less with other koalas. They prefer to live alone. Koalas are very sluggish and sleep a lot.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas from Australia's Victorian areas have very specific and unique territorial and range behavior as compared to the other Koalas. There the Koalas ranges and territories are usually overlapped and also the Koalas' population density is very high   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' territories and ranges within Queensland Australia is relatively bigger than that of the Victorian areas of Australia. However, there is less food (Eucalyptus Leaves) for Koalas in Queensland, and therefore, the population is less also.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Alpha dominant male Koalas have different behavior than other male Koalas. An alpha Dominant male Koala enjoys territory control, owning the female Koalas and also having a big control over the food which includes Eucalyptus trees.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Whenever, the young Koala Joeys grow up, female Koalas do become aggressive towards them. Because of this aggression of the female Koalas, the joeys do not come closer after 1 year and choose a life of their own.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas have to do a scent marking to attract the female Koalas. Male Koalas spread their scent marking through trees. A koala has to rub its chest against the tree which creates a particular kind of a smelly secretion which attracts female Koala  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas adapt a very specific kind of a mating strategy. They initiate it during the mating season through proper scent marking and urination and the approach female Koalas. They show no courtesy to the female Koalas and grab them for mating   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Territorial Encounters and fights among male koalas are very common. A dominant and larger male will always want to get rid of the weaker male within the area. While fighting male Koalas bite each other in a head on collision manner.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Male Koalas possess unique sounds and vocalization. Male Koalas possess a grunting sound, Male Koalas have specific vocalization of irritation and also they have unique sounds and vocalization during fighting   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Mature female Koalas also possess a very specific and unique sound and vocalization. A female Koala can snarl, scream loudly and even create a wailing sound   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas possess variety of facial expressions. There facial expressions are usually governed by their nose moments, ear movements, mouth movements (lips). They show expressions whenever, they are happy, scared or angry.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas start breeding whenever; they reach their youth and maturity. Usually a male Koala start breeding around the age of 18 months. However, a female Koala starts breeding around the age of 20 months to 22 months   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Koalas' fertility rates' success depends upon variety of factors. Usually fertility is enriched within Koalas, however, because of the severe weather conditions and diseases outbreaks, the fertility success may vary within Koalas.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Adolescent and young Koala Joeys possess a unique behavior interacting with their mothers. They are more attached with their mother and do not like loneliness. If their mother leaves, they start squeaking and triggering different behaviors.   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Mother Koalas leave their young koala joeys, whenever the young koala joeys reach the age of around 10 months. Usually a young Koala Joey is fall asleep whenever, their mothers leave them. Upon missing its mother a young koala Joey starts squeaking,   p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Young Koala Joeys are very playful in terms of their behavior. Usually marsupials are less playful but Koalas are more. They play with their mothers. They play fighting. They create peculiar and unusual movements and also nibble at their mothers.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Usually the mating season for the Koalas is from the month of September till the month of March. Koalas mate during summers and spring seasons. However, there is no specified month for mating. Success of mating depends upon a lot many factors.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Ein Koala ist ein Beuteltier Tier, das auf dem gesamten Kontinent von Australien lebt. Koalainfo.com bietet alle Informationen über Koalas., Koalas News-Artikel, Koalas Habitat, Koalas Ernährung, Koala Paarungszeit Koala Joey Behavior, Mutter Koalas verlassen ihre Joey, Jugendliche Koalas, Koalas Geburtenrate, männlich Koala Ages, weiblich Ages Koala, Koalas Gesichtsausdruck, Koalas Sounds, Koalas Stimmgebung, Koalas territoriale Begegnungen, männlich Koala Mating, Duftmarken von männlich Koalas, Grooming Aggressivität der weiblichen Koalas, Alpha dominante Männchen Koala, Koalas Territories, Queensland Koalas, viktorianischen Koalas, Koalas Sozialverhalten, Koalas, Koalas und Eukalyptus-Blätter, Koalas Nahrungsaufnahme, Körpertemperatur Koalas, Koalas Magische Fur, Koalas Specialized Claws, Koalas Wasserlassen, Koalas während der Sommersaison, Koalas während der Wintersaison, Koalas Schlafpositionen, Koalas Sommer Ruhen, Koalas Winter-Ruhen, Koalas als Einzelgänger, Koalas Sozialverhalten, Koalas und Bushfire, Koalas Predators, Koalas Geburt, Pubertät Weibliche Koalas Zeitraum, Koalas und Ernährung, Koala Joeys Zahn, Koala Joeys und Pap, Koala Joeys Mutter und Milch, Koalas innerhalb ihrer Mütter Beutel, Koalas 'Geruchssinn, Koala Geburt Zeit, Größe der Koala bei der Geburt, Tragzeit innerhalb Weibliche Koalas, Life of Koala Joey mit seiner Mutter, weiblich Koalas 'Nahrungsaufnahme, Koalas und Eukalyptus-Blätter, Koalas und getrocknete Blätter, Koalas' intellektuelle Fähigkeit, Koalas und Hitzschlag, Koalas und Dehydratation, Koalas und Hunger, Koalas und Karies, Koalas Energie, Koalas 20 Stunden Schlaf, Koalas und deren Verdauung, Koalas Wasserverbrauch, Koalas und Cyanid-Verbindungen, Koalas einheimischen Namen, Koalas Ohren, Koalas 'Augen, Koalas' Popularität , Koalas in Australien.  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" 考拉是位于澳大利亚大陆的有袋动物哺乳动物。  p 
 p class="para" itemprop="description" Коала - сумчатое животное, которое принадлежит континенту Австралии. Подобно кенгуру, женские коалы также имеют мешочек на животе.  p 
 p itemprop="description" style="text-align:justify; font-size:10px;" Welcome to  span itemprop="name" koalainfo.com  span ! The Largest Database of Koalas in the World! koalainfo.com contains Absolute Information About Koalas! We have all the latest, complete and Up-to-Date Information about Koalas.   p 
 p itemprop="description" style="text-align:justify; font-size:10px;" Please feel free to Contact  span itemprop="name" koalainfo.com  span  Team at any Time. We will do our best to Respond you Promptly on your each and every Request, Queries and Help!  p 
 p style="text-align:justify; font-size:10px;" Website :  a itemprop="url" href="http:  www.koalainfo.com" target="_blank" www.koalainfo.com  a   p 
 p style="text-align:justify; font-size:10px;" Page :  a itemprop="url" href="https:  plus.google.com 100905967314662192553" rel="publisher" Google+  a  br   span itemprop="telephone" Phone : +923365398202  span   p 
 p style="text-align:justify; font-size:10px;" Email:  a href="mailto:sunnyitec@gmail.com"  span itemprop="email" sunnyitec@gmail.com  span   a   p 
 p style="font-size:10px" Copyright © 2019 -  a href="http:  www.koalainfo.com" target="_blank" WWW.KOALAINFO.COM  a   a href="http:  www.avenir-technologies.com" target="_blank" Powered by Avenir Technologies   a   p 
