 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Australia is home to list of different and unique variety of animals, birds, reptiles and plants, Among Australia’s best known wild animals are the kangaroo, koala, echidna, dingo, platypus and wallaby.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Famous animals found in Australia also include marine animals such as cone snail, sea snake, blue-ringed octopus and land animals such as Gang-gang cockatoo, Emu, eastern brown snake, tiger snake,wolf spider, wedge-tailed eagle, banjo frog and Blue-tongued skink, here is the list of unique wild animals of Australia.  span   p 
 p 
 script async src="  pagead2.googlesyndication.com pagead js adsbygoogle.js" type="37e2b352540616f3ea1ac96f-text javascript"   script 

 ins class="adsbygoogle" style="display:block" data-ad-client="ca-pub-2902668667291396" data-ad-slot="2875889685" data-ad-format="horizontal"   ins 
 script type="37e2b352540616f3ea1ac96f-text javascript" 
	(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
	  script 
  p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Kangaroos are unofficially Australia’s national animal and describe as the largest species from his family. The Kangaroos are endemic to Australia and one of the species of red kangaroo are known as largest surviving marsupial of the world.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Koala is a tree herbivorous animal native to Australia, mostly found in coastal areas Queensland and Victoria. Koalas are symbol of Australia country but due to habitat destruction and hunting, the animal is a vulnerable species.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Echidna are spiny anteaters and one of the egg-laying mammals and one of the rarest animals in the world. The Echidna has sharp spine like a big porcupine and one of the surviving members of the monotreme species.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Platypus is another egg-laying mammal endemic to semiaquatic area of Australia. The Platypus are combination of duck, beaver and otter,also one of the known venomous mammals in the world.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Wombats are native to Australia, mostly found in mountainous areas of south Australia. Wombats species are protected in Australia and Epping Forest National Park is one of the best place in the country to spot species of Wombat.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Macrotis are one of the  a href="http:  www.walkthroughindia.com wild-world 15-dangerous-animals-wild-world-australia " endangered animal species in Australia  a  and one of the shortest among mammals in the world. Greater bilby or Macrotis is the largest of the other small Macrotis and lesser bilby became extinct from Australia.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Wallabies are small kangaroo found in Australia and the smallest member of kangaroo family. The wallaby are medium sized marsupial and one of the two species are endangered because of hunting for meat and fur.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Sugar Glider is a small marsupial found throughout mainland of Australia. The sugar glider are arboreal omnivores,live in family groups and one of the most commonly traded wild animal.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Tiger Quoll are carnivorous animal,native to mainland Australia and Tasmania. The tiger quoll are largest and the world’s longest species of marsupial and a living carnivorous.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" The cane toads of Australia are also known as giant neotropical toad and has been introduced in the country. Cane toads are highly toxic in nature and one of the largest of the frogs and toads found in Australia.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Thorny Devil Dragon is the only species of devil lizard found in Australia. The thorny dragon is a small species of lizard and known for their defenses against predators.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Inland Taipan is the world’s most venomous land snake,living in regions of central east Australia. The inland taipan is an extremely venomous snake based on its venom and has the most toxic venom of any other reptiles in the world.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Tasmanian Devil are the carnivorous animal found only in the wild forest of Australian island. The Tasmanian devil are among known for the strongest bite per unit body mass of any other land predator.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Australian Goannas are monitor lizards and fourth- a href="http:  www.walkthroughindia.com wild-world top-10-largest-living-lizards-earth " largest living lizard found on earth  a . The perentie is the largest monitor lizard, mostly found in the desert areas of Western Australia.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;" Dingo is Australia’s wild dog but a separate species from dog found in deserts and grasslands of Australia. Dingo wild dogs are the largest terrestrial predator in the country but listed as vulnerable to extinction.  span   p 
 p class="description" 
We Will Walk You Through The Beautiful Land of Mother India. And Finally we really like to
thank you all guys for being with us. We deeply hope for a great Time together during
Surfing
our website. If you have any idea you know how to find us.
  p 
