 p class="text-l source-serif" Bear Butte Today
	Bear Butte, is still one of the most sacred places for both the Cheyenne and the Oceti Sakowin peoples. There are many people who are trying to reconnect their culture back to the mountain’s spiritualness. Sadly, this sacred site is constantly being threatened by outside forces, potentially destroying the sacredness of the mountain. Today, there are many people, both native and non native, who are fighting against these incroaching forces on Bear Butte. Many people are working togather…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" The Koala


Inroduction
     The koala is the Australian jewel. It has very furry, ash colored hair,
a rubbery black nose, sharp claws, fuzzy ears, and a grizzly personality, or
should I say, koalality. If you kill a koala, you'll make a million off their
fur! They would sell the fur to coat companies and make coats out of koala fur.
Well, sadly enough, too many people are making millions on koalas. That's why
they're endangered species.

Habitat
     The koala is distributed along the eastern coastal…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" Bears versus Butches…The Bears Climb to the Top while Butches Attempt but Instead Plop.
	The Bears and the Butches have both experienced discrimination throughout their lives because of who they are, both being minorities in the gay and lesbian community. The Bears feel that they are the marginalized group of a marginalized group in the gay community (Ingram), while the Butches aren’t accepted into lesbian meetings because they of how they make themselves appear (Feinberg 135-136). The Bears have…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" likely species? A black bear. The imagination of seeing one of the most potentially dangerous species is actually becoming a reality in many locations all over the area. Many have reported aggressive tendencies from the black bear population. Reports of attacks are emerging throughout the state. Some experts say there is no trend of black bears migration to more southern areas of the state, yet others have projected that Indiana and Illinois will have some sort of black bear population. For the moment…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" as a reform activist (Poets.org). In his poem, The Bear, Kinnell writes about a man who, upon discovering a steaming dropping made by a bear in the snow, sets on a hunt for a bear. The hunter faces several obstacles, but manages to overtake his prey. Kinnell uses the poem to show what it means to be a survivor and what it feels like to express yourself.
Kinnell picks a certain style to write his poem. Of all the forms, he chooses to write The Bear with as little words as possible. Through this method…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" Polar Bear
Introduction
	Polar bears live in the Arctic Circle with temperatures that can be minus fifty degrees Celsius.  Polar bears are considered marine mammals because they spend the majority of the life at sea, swimming for miles, but they are the only marine mammal that has limbs and also roams on ice and land.   Male polar bears generally are twice the size of females, or sow’s.   An ancestor of the grizzly bear, polar bears live in the Arctic Circle and spend majority of their time in the…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" After 9 11, Netanyahu argued against regarding basic liberties such free speech and the right to bear arms as absolutes.  In modern western society, we have rights, such as freedom of speech, and in some countries, the right to bear arms.  In response to the 9 11 terrorist attacks, Netanyahu argues that these rights are not universal to everybody.  We need to set limits as to how far these rights can take us and suspend these rights for some people, because not everybody deserves to be granted these…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" SArajevo School of science and technology
Bear Stearns Collapse 2007
A short analysis

ISMAR HOTA





Table of Contents
Introduction	3
Literature Review	3
Methodology	4
Analysis	5
Introduction	5
About Bear Stearns	6
The Culture at Bear Stearns	6
The Collapse of Bear Sterns	7
The Ethical Issues behind the Bear Stearns Collapse	8
What are subprime mortgages and its Ethical Failures?	8
The Lack of Corporate Governance at Bear Sterns	9
Moral Hazard at Bear Stearns	10
Non Ethical Conduct of the Regulators…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" Marsupials
The Koala
Among the many different marsupials in the world, there is one that stands out and is recognized, not only for its looks, but also for the hardships that it deals with in being a koala. The koala originated in Australia, and was discovered by trappers around the time of 1798. Many rare and exotic animals have been found in Australia, because of its remoteness and isolation from most of the civilized world. Australia has been described as a huge ark, a giant lifeboat, cut off…  p 
 p class="text-l source-serif" Cultural Speech Outline: 
Australia

Purpose: At the end of our speech, the audience will know about Australia
Introduction: 
Grabber: G'day Mates! 
Preview: Today we are going to talk about Australia’s wildlife, sports, celebrities, cuisine, history, and attractions.

Body:
I.  Australia has a number of different mammals but does not have any large predatory animals.
A. Mammals are warm blooded animals that give live birth.
B. Their biggest carnivorous animal is called the dingo, or wild…  p 
 p class="copyright-block__logo margin-2" 
                     a href="https:  www.bartleby.com " target="_new" class="no-margin cursor-pointer heading-s text-m weight-700" 
                        ←  Go back to bartleby
                      a 
                  p 
 p class="copyright-block__logo  position-absolute padding-top-4 margin-2" 
                     span class="show-for-medium-only"  br  br  br  br  br  br  br  br   span 
                     a href="https:  www.bartleby.com " target="_new" class="no-margin cursor-pointer heading-s white text-m weight-700" 
                        ←  Go back to bartleby
                      a 
                  p 
