 p There are no specific start arrival dates for this project however, we do recommend that you start on a Monday. And you need to be there by 8:20 am to start volunteering at 8:30 am.  p 
 p Volunteer will have lots of activities to participate in however all will be at the volunteer's expense. Brisbane is s great city with lot's to do. For example student parties, outdoor swimming pools, Concerts, shopping, Cinema's, Sports, going to the gym and much more. You can also take a day to visit the beautiful beaches of the Gold Coast!  p 
 p  span The fees include:  span   p 
 p Depending on the accommodation option you choose, you will
either be picked up at the airport or take the train or bus to your
accommodation.  p 
 p If you are staying for less than 4 weeks, then you’ll be placed
at a hostel near the volunteer project and this will be arranged for you.
Hostels are great for making friends and is based in the central area where
there is plenty to do. If you plan to stay for 4 weeks and longer, homestay
accommodation will be arranged near the volunteer project for you. You will
live with a local family and learn about the Australian way of life. This
includes your own bedroom, laundry facility in the house, wireless internet and
you can also have access to the living room, kitchen and washroom. It’s a
terrific way to get to experience the Queensland Area! Things to bring to the
project; You should wear your uniform shirt with either jeans or shorts (must
be comfortable) that you don’t mind getting dirty. Always maintain a neat
appearance and make sure that shorts and jeans are not too revealing. Shorts
legs should not be higher than mid-thigh and NO low-rise jeans, long pants or
shorts! No skirts are allowed. Enclosed shoes are compulsory – sturdy sneakers
(runners joggers), hiking boots or work boots are fine. Hat, sunglasses and
sunscreen for sunny days and a raincoat for rainy weather.  p 
 p Meals aren't provided by the hostel but at an additional cost, they can provide breakfast and a packed lunch. All meals will be provided by the Host family if you choose that option.  p 
 p  You requested a page that doesn't exist on this site any more. This could be caused by a link
you followed that was out of date, by a typing in the wrong address in the address bar,
or simply because the post has been deleted.  p 
