 p class="intro"  span style="font-size: 13px;" Experience the life of Koala keepers at one of the world’s first and largest Koala sanctuaries in beautiful Queensland, Australia. Looking for a project that allows  span style="font-size: 13px;"  you to work alongside the handlers of Koalas, kangaroos and many more local Wildlife  span ? Then this volunteer experience is perfect for you.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13px;" Come in close contact with over 130 Koalas of different ages! If you are looking to cuddle and play with the local wildlife all day, or be trained in animal handling then this is not for you. The duties of an animal keeper are not easy and can be physically demanding. If you enjoy working with animals and are not afraid to get your hands dirty in the outdoors, then be part of an exciting experience. Enjoy the satisfaction that comes with helping to care for wildlife in a beautiful, natural environment!  span   p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Where?  strong   span style="font-size: 13px;" Australasia, Queensland  span   p 
 p  strong Country Size:  strong   span style="font-size: 13px;" 1,852,642 million km2  span   br  span style="font-size: 13px;" 715,300 sq mi  span   p 
 p  strong Population density?  strong  2.7 km2  p 
 p  strong Country Famous for?  strong   span style="font-size: 13px;" Koalas, Kangaroos, Wildlife watching, pristine beaches, vibrant cities, friendly people, Sunshine State of Australia  span   p 
 p  strong When to visit:  strong  All year round  p 
 p  strong What's not included:   strong Flights and Insurance  p 
 p  strong style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;" Package Price:  strong  span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;"    span  br  span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;" 04 Weeks: $1,795.00 US  span  br  span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;" 08 Weeks: $2,795.00 US  span  br  span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;" 12 Weeks: $3,795.00 US  span   p 
 p class="details"  span style="font-size: 13px;" As a volunteer, you will assist with numerous tasks around the sanctuary. Each morning, you will be allocated to a specific animal section – this is done via a roster and you are not able to choose which animals you would be working with. Your tasks may include:  span   p 
 p class="details"  strong Day 1 -  strong style="font-size: 13px;" Arrive in Brisbane, Australia  strong ;  strong   br  span style="font-size: 13px;" You will arrive in beautiful Brisbane where you will be met at the airport and transferred to your accommodation.  span   p 
 p class="details"  strong For 4 - 12 weeks -Volunteer at a Koala sanctuary!  strong   span style="font-size: 13px;" For the coming weeks, you will have a great time working directly with many different kind of animals while being surrounded by nature!  span   p 
 p class="details"  strong Your last day -  strong   span style="font-size: 13px;" You will fly back home or take the opportunity to travel through Australia. Our staff will gladly help you to book any tours to see more of this great country.  span   p 
 p class="details" At your homestay you can choose the no meals plan where you are responsible for your own meals. An option of having two delicious meals on weeks days and three on weekends is also available. If you are staying at the hostel, there are no meals. If will need to arrange meals yourself or you can choose to have a continental breakfast every day and or packed lunch which you will need to pay for.  p 
 p class="details" This project is in Queensland, Australia where  you have great opportunities to experience the authentic Australian outback experience!  p 
 p Hi Miranda,  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13px;" My experience at the Koala Samctuary was very good. The tasks are varied and you learn many new things. For me, a teacher who works inside a building all day, it was wonderful to be able to do physical work outside, not having any of my usual responsibilities and worries. I'd recommend this kind of experience to anyone who isn't afraid to get a bit dirty and willing to do physical work outside.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13px;" Staying in Merediths and Russells house was also good. They're friendly people who do their best to make your stay pleasant. Russell took me and the other volunteer who lived in their house to the sanctuary every morning, and after work we took the bus. They also included us on a Sunday family picknick at the beach, and took us one evening to a mountain to see the skyline of Brisbane. I'm very happy with my work experience in the Koala Sanctuary.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13px;" Best wishes  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 13px;"   span  span style="font-size: 13px;" Susanne from Switzerland  span   p 
 p    p 
 p Hi Miranda,  p 
 p First of all, a big thank you to you and fronteering for helping organize my stay here. The last four weeks have been amazing and one of the greatest journeys of my life so far.   p 
 p The work at the Koala Sanctuary was an incredible experience. Working so close to so many amazing animals is a once in a lifetime opportunity. The work itself is very diverse. The volunteers get divided into new sections every day. You can work in mammals, koalas, birds, macropods and barn. Sometimes there is also a floater volunteer who helps in all sections. The different sections give you a lot of different tasks each week. You also get to work together with different keepers and volunteers. Besides getting to know your colleagues better that way, it also ensures that it never becomes boring.  p 
 p All the keepers were really nice and helpful. Preparing food for the animals and cleaning enclosure are a big part of your working day. But every section also has daily tasks in which you work directly and close up to the animals which is very gratifying. I am going to miss the people and animals at the Koala Sanctuary and I can´t wait to visit them again in the future.  p 
 p My homestay was Glenn Bentley. His apartment is located very convenient. The bus stop is five minutes on foot away, it takes roughly twenty minutes to get to the Sanctuary. A big shopping centre is ten minutes away, a ferry stop five minutes away. The ferry only takes around ten minutes to bring you to the city centre.   p 
 p Glenn´s apartment offers you three rooms for your sole disposal. A fully equipped bathroom, a bed room and a small room with desk and wardrobe. Moreover, the apartment complex has a nice pool and a small gym, both of which you can use freely.   p 
 p Glenn was very welcoming and nice from day one on. He showed me the bus stop and the shopping centre and the most important spots around the city. He also drove me to the induction at the Koala Sanctuary on my first Sunday. He was always supportive, asked what kind of food he can buy, answered all my questions about the city or Australia in general and always offered his help no matter what. It was always great to come home from work and sit down for dinner with him to talk about news, our respective countries and just all kinds of stuff. But I also always had the opportunity to go to my room if I needed some time just quietly relaxing or if I wanted to talk to my family and friends. It was a nice, relaxed atmosphere all the way through and staying with Glenn made the last four weeks really awesome. I do hope that I can see him again sometime in the future and that he gets a lot of volunteers in the next years, so that they can enjoy Brisbane and Koala Sanctuary in the same way I did.   p 
 p I also want to mention Glenn´s ex-wife, Lisa. The two are in regular contact and she has Koala Sanctuary volunteers herself. Through their connection I was able to get in touch with the other volunteers at my work from day one on, which helped to create new friendships that I hope will outlive my stay here. I was at Lisa´s every weekend atleast once to do trips or to just hang around by the pool. Lisa was welcoming and treated me as if I was staying with her. She is truly one of the kindest persons I´ve ever met and I´m thankful for her hospitality and kindness throughout my stay. She cares a lot about each volunteer she has and tries everything to make their stay the best possible.  p 
 p In short: Both Glenn and Lisa are absolutely amazing and I hope to see them both again in the future. I highly recommend them for future volunteers who I am sure will have a great time with the two :-)   p 
 p Niklas from Germany  p 
