 p class="stream" Redmi Note 7 Pro Review  p 
 p class="copy" The budget phone to beat in 2019  p 
 p class="stream" Honda Civic  p 
 p class="copy" Honda Civic 10th-gen announced at a price starting from Rs 17.69 lakhs in India  p 
 p class="post-desc" The International Union for Conservation of Nature qualifies the koala's protection status as "vulnerable".

  p 
 p class="post-info" 
                                           a href=" author afp"  strong  span class="post-by" Agence France-Presse  span   strong   a 
                                          
                     strong  span class="post-date" Jul 03, 2018 09:28:43 IST  span   strong 
               p 
 p Australia's iconic  a href="https:  www.firstpost.com tag koala"  strong koala  strong   a , its very existence imperilled by disease, bushfires, car strikes, and dog attacks, faces a more hopeful future thanks to scientists cracking its genetic code, a study said on Monday.  p 
 p A mammoth effort by more than 50 researchers in seven countries uncovered 26,558 koala genes, yielding vital DNA clues for vaccines against diseases such as sexually transmitted chlamydia, which blinds the cuddly critters and leaves them infertile.  p 
 p "The genome has allowed us to understand the koala immune genes in detail for the first time," said Rebecca Johnson of the Australian Museum Research Institute, a co-author of the study published in  em Nature Genetics  em .  p 
 p "These genes (are) directly contributing to vaccines for koalas," she told  em AFP  em .  p 
 p The DNA code should also boost koala breeding programmes.  p 
 p It revealed that inbreeding was higher among koalas from Victoria and South Australia than among their cousins from Queensland and New South Wales.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Representational image. Reuters  p 
 p The discovery "allows us to make recommendations for how to preserve the populations with high genetic diversity and how animals might be translocated to improve the diversity of inbred populations," Johnson said.  p 
 p From between 15 and 20 species some 30 to 40 million years ago, a single species of koala survives in Australia today — some 3,30,000 individuals in all, most living in protected areas.  p 
 p As few as 43,000 may be left in the wild, down from an estimated 10 million koalas before Europeans began settling Down Under in around 1788.  p 
 p Koala numbers were decimated partly by a thriving pelt trade from the 1870s to the late 1920s.  p 
 p The International Union for Conservation of Nature qualifies the koala's protection status as "vulnerable".  p 
 p  strong Picky eater  strong   p 
 p Koalas are marsupials — mammals which raise their young in a tummy pouch.  p 
 p Their unusual diet consists mainly of eucalyptus leaves, which would be toxic for most animals and are low in calories, meaning the fluffy "bears" have to eat lots and rest often.  p 
 p The new study identified genes responsible for liver detoxification that likely permitted koalas to become such dietary specialists, thus avoiding competition for food with other animals.  p 
 p Unfortunately, their pickiness now adds to the survival pressure, with eucalyptus trees cleared for farmland or to build cities.  p 
 p Global warming, experts say, will further raise the risk of devastating forest fires and tree death.  p 
 p The koala genome is the most complete yet sequenced for any marsupial, of which there are about 300 species, the researchers said.  p 
 p The koala genome is bigger than the human genome, with about 20,000 genes.  p 
 p  em Tech2 is now on WhatsApp. For all the buzz on the latest tech and science, sign up for our WhatsApp services. Just go to  a href="https:  www.firstpost.com whatsapp-tech.html" class="external-link" rel="nofollow" title="Follow link" Tech2.com Whatsapp  a  and hit the Subscribe button.  em   p 
 p LIVE Score, India vs Australia 4th ODI at Mohali: Turner, Carey keep Aussies interested in chase despite Handscomb's fall  p 
 p Rising demand for hooch during elections, used to influence voters, increases risk of more spurious liquor-related deaths  p 
 p Ethiopian Airlines plane crash kills all 157 on board; flight went down en route to Nairobi from Addis Ababa  p 
 p Nitin Gadkari asserts he does not have prime ministerial ambitions, says he stands 'solidly behind Modi ji'  p 
 p Shraddha Srinath on her Bollywood debut in Tigmanshu Dhulia’s Milan Talkies, and working with Nani in Jersey  p 
 p ArcelorMittal's takeover bid for debt-ridden Essar Steel approved by NCLT Ahmedabad  p 
 p Hindu Kush Himalayas witness growth in hydropower projects, despite climate change risks  p 
 p Nayantara Sahgal on her new book The Fate of Butterflies, the times we live in and what lies ahead for India  p 
 p Premier League: Manchester United, having rediscovered their character, face a fragile Arsenal still searching for identity  p 
 p Loksabha Election 2019: 7 चरणों में होगा मतदान, 11 अप्रैल को पहले चरण की वोटिंग और 23 मई को मतगणना  p 
 p LIVE Cricket Score, India vs Australia, लाइव क्रिकेट स्कोर, 4th ODI at Mohali: चहल ने 117 रन पर रोकी हैंड्सकॉम्‍ब की पारी  p 
 p गाजियाबादः  CISF के कार्यक्रम में पहुंचे पीएम मोदी, कहा- देश की सुरक्षा में निभाते हैं अहम भूमिका  p 
 p ओडिशा: CM नवीन पटनायक ने किया बड़ा ऐलान, कहा- लोकसभा चुनाव में 33% टिकट महिलाओं को दिए जाएंगे  p 
 p आकाश अंबानी और श्लोका मेहता की शादी में देश और दुनिया की इन हस्तियों ने की शिरकत  p 
 p class="title" latest videos  p 
 p class="video-title" Redmi Note 7 Pro Review | Best budget phone  p 
 p class="video-title" One Finger OP or What?  p 
 p class="video-title" Clever Ways to attack in PUBG Mobile | Pro Tips with Mortal | Ep 6  p 
 p class="video-title" Delhi is drying up, Kerala's sex ed lie &amp; the second patient cured of HIV — This week in Science  p 
 p class="video-title" Realme 3 Review | Battery and Design are its only charms  p 
 p class="video-title" Oppo F11 Pro Unboxing  p 
 p class="video-title" Samsung Galaxy S10+ Review | 10 out of 10?  p 
 p class="video-title" Importance of Sound in PUBG Mobile | Pro Tips with Mortal | Ep 5  p 
 p class="video-title" Foldable phones, smartphones on your wrist and 5G | Highlights from MWC 2019  p 
 p class="video-title" Lenovo Z5 Series First Look | MWC 2019  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" SportsTracker  p 
 p class="title" Cameron Bancroft smashes unbeaten 138 for Western Australia on return to First-class cricket after 'sandpapergate'  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Vitamin D  p 
 p class="title" Vitamin D levels now measureable from strands of human hair instead of blood  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Health Care  p 
 p class="title" Life Science startups in India are plagued with funding challenges, new report finds  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Super Vision  p 
 p class="title" Super vision isn't sci-fi anymore — it's powered for 10 weeks by a single injection  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Measles Epidemic  p 
 p class="title" UN warns that 'complacency' is causing rapid rise in measles cases worldwide  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Storms  p 
 p class="title" Decades of data compiled to see effect of violent storms in India in the future  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" All-woman Spacewalk  p 
 p class="title" NASA astronauts to go on the world's first all-woman spacewalk on 29 March  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Women in Science  p 
 p class="title" Women's Day 2019: Indian science is inching towards #BalanceForBetter despite the none-too-easy path  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Women at Work   p 
 p class="title" Women's Day 2019: Women in health, science and innovation are collaborating globally  p 
 p class="tag biztech-color" Engineering  p 
 p class="title" Inexpensive flexible 3D printed sensor can detect even the tiniest amount of water  p 
 p class="inline" Copyright © 2019.  a href="https:  www.firstpost.com " alt="Firstpost" title="Firstpost" Firstpost  a  - All Rights Reserved.  p 
 p class="inline"  a href="https:  www.firstpost.com terms-of-use" Terms of use  a  a href="https:  www.firstpost.com privacy" Privacy  a   p 
