 p You have spoken and this South American superstar is ready for its close up! They may be the slowest animal on earth, but they may also be the quickest to fall in love with.  p 
 p An Animal Care Staff from the Tropics Trail will be your guide as you go behind the scenes to get an unprecedented look at our loveable sloths. There will be plenty of opportunities to take pictures, and to get all your silly and serious sloth questions answered. The highlight of your experience though will sure to be feeding a sloth as it rests in its treetop home. Our first stop will be the Tropics Kitchen to see where all the action happens, and then we will head over to see the star of the show. Step into the actual habitat and see them from the most up close and personal points of view!  p 
 p Getting into their habitat requires a bit of grace and skill as you will have to climb a short ladder and crouch through a small door. Once in the exhibit, you will be walking on uneven rock terrain. If you are unable to do so, please contact us so we can adjust the experience to fit your needs.  p 
 p As is with all of our animals, it is up to them to decide how much they want to participate in any program or experience. We understand that many guests may want to hold a sloth; however, this is not permissible. Touching a sloth is highly unlikely as well. Even though they look cute and cuddly, they are still wild animals that are not accustomed to being held or touched and have sharp teeth and claws. Sloths also do not show visible signs of stress, and it has been discovered that their stress levels increase considerably when being touched or handled by an unfamiliar person. Handling them can also expose sloths to germs and bacteria, and a sloth’s skin and fur can be very sensitive to chemicals.  p 
 p  strong Time:  strong  10:00-10:45 a.m. br 
 strong Date:  strong  offered on selected Saturdays throughout the year br 
 strong Age:  strong  minimum 10 years old, participants younger than 16 must be accompanied by a paying adult br 
 strong Fee:  strong  $150 per person br 
 strong Group Size:  strong  Maximum of 4 participants, smaller groups may be combined.  p 
 p  a class="education-16" href="https:  my.mnzoo.org auxiliary auxlisting.aspx?k=132" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" Register Online  a   p 
 p Questions?  a href=" cdn-cgi l email-protection#ec8988998f8d9889ac8182968383c2839e8b" Email  a  or call 952.431.9390.  p 
