 p class="breadcrumbs" title=""  span  span  a href="https:  www.edgeofexistence.org " Home  a  &gt;  span  a href="https:  www.edgeofexistence.org species " Species  a  &gt;  span class="breadcrumb_last" 23. Pygmy Three-toed Sloth  span   span   span   span   p 
 p  strong The pygmy three-toed sloth is the smallest of the three-toed sloths, and was only recognised as a distinct species in 2001. br 
  strong   p 
 p It can only be found on the Isla Escudo de Veraguas, which has been separate from mainland Panama for 9,000 years. Famous for its slow movements, the pygmy three-toed sloth is ideally suited to life in the mangroves and is surprisingly good at swimming. The major threat to the pygmy three-toed sloth is habitat destruction, which is reducing the size of its already small habitat. Through the phenomenon of island dwarfism, they have become the smallest member of its genus. The pygmy three-toed sloth is only one of four members in the three-toed sloth genus Bradypus. Sloths usually only descend to the ground when they need to urinate and defecate and can go for up to seven days without needing to defecate. Since their movements are so slow, the pygmy three-toed sloths main forms of defences are camouflage and stealth, whereby they avoid predation largely by avoiding detection. However, they often survive attacks due to their tough hides, strong grips and a remarkable healing ability. The green algae found in the fur of the pygmy three-toed sloth is a unique species of Trichophilus algae which is thought to be symbiotic, providing camouflage to the sloth at no detriment to the sloth’s health. Algae begin to grow on the pygmy three-toed sloth during childhood and are probably transferred from mother to child.  p 
 p They are endemic, and known only from the small island Isla Escudo de Veraguas which lies about 17km from mainland Panama.  p 
 p It is thought that the pygmy three-toed sloth primarily feeds on the leaves of the red mangrove trees in which it lives. These mangroves are thought to cover an area of just 1.3-1.5km² on the island. Adults only come together to mate, finding each other using loud calls. Although the gestation period for the pygmy three-toed sloth is unknown, other species of three-toed sloth are pregnant for between 4 and seven months before giving birth. The mother bears one infant at a time, and will care for it between six months or a year during which time she will carry the young sloth with her everywhere she goes.  p 
 p Two years have passed since my first encounter with a female pygmy sloth and her  baby on Escudo de Veraguas ...  p 
 p A big thank you to all our supporters who donated and spread the word about our campaign – each of you helped us to...  p 
 p While on holiday in Panama, David Curnick, a member of the Marine and Freshwater team at ZSL and sloth enthusiast ...  p 
 p EDGE Fellow Diorene isn’t afraid to wade up to her chest in search of a sloth! Read her latest blog about ...  p 
 p For each key category of conservation action, we calculated a conservation attention score based on expert information. In this graph, a higher score means the action is being carried out more intensively over more of the species range. The colour shows how important each action is considered to be for the conservation of this species.  p 
 p We combined all of the expert information on conservation actions to calculate an overall conservation attention score for this species. Please help us to reach our goal of establishing dedicated conservation attention at “High” levels for all EDGE species.  p 
 p Recent studies have grouped all possible conservation activities for any species into nine key categories (Washington et. al 2015). For each action, we asked experts for each species to assess the extent to which that action is being carried out and how much of the species’ range that action occurs in. For each action we used these two pieces of information to calculate the conservation attention score per action. A score of 100 means that the action is being carried out to a high level across at least 75% of the species range. We then combined the scores for all actions into an overall conservation attention score for the species. The experts also judged how important each category was to the conservation of that particular species.  p 
 p 
					This wordcloud illustrates the threats facing this species. The size of each word indicates the extent of a species range that is affected by that threat (larger size means a greater area is affected). The colour of the word indicates how much that threat impacts the species (darker shades of red mean the threat is more severe).
				  p 
 p  script type="text javascript" 
function googleTranslateElementInit() {
new google.translate.TranslateElement({pageLanguage: 'en', layout: google.translate.TranslateElement.InlineLayout.SIMPLE, autoDisplay: false}, 'google_translate_element');
}
  script  script type="text javascript" src="  translate.google.com translate_a element.js?cb=googleTranslateElementInit"   script   p 
 p  a href=" newsletter " class="button" Subscribe  a   p 
 p The Zoological Society of London is incorporated by Royal Charter – Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 208728. br 
Principal Office England – Company Number RC000749 – Registered address Regent’s Park, London, England NW1 4RY  p 
