 p  a class="hamburger-menu-icon" href="#"  img src=" profiles sk themes sns i hamburger.png"  span class="hamburger-text"  Menu  span   a   p 
 p The brown-throated sloth is a type of three-toed sloth. It has the lowest rate of daily energy use of any mammal, a new study finds.  p 
 p There are degrees of slothfulness, even when it comes to sloths. And three-toed sloths may be the most slothful of all, new data show.  p 
 p Researchers studied two species of sloth in Costa Rica. They measured the rate at which these animals’ bodies operate, converting food to fuel and growth. And this  em metabolic   em rate in one species of three-toed sloth was the lowest ever recorded — not just for a sloth, but for any mammal.  p 
 p Six species make up the category of animals that most people call sloths. All fall into one of two families — either the two-toed or three-toed sloths. Both families live in trees throughout Central and South America where they eat leaves. But millions of years of evolution separate the families. Three-toed sloths tend to have smaller ranges and eat a more restricted diet than do their two-toed cousins. That means they prefer to dine on fewer species of trees. And they’ll usually eat from only a few individual trees.  p 
 p  img alt="two-toed sloth" class="caption" src=" sites student.societyforscience.org files 2016 350-inline-1-sloths.jpg" style="width: 350px; height: 467px; float: right;" title="Like most sloths, the brown-throated sloth spends most of its time hanging out in the trees. ~~ Stefan Laube (Tauchgurke) Wikimedia Commons" Jonathan Pauli is an ecologist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He got interested in sloths not because they’re adorable, he explains, but because “other things eat them.” And Pauli has kept his interest in these slow moving animals because he also finds them “biologically fascinating.”  p 
 p Studies had shown that three-toed sloths have a very slow metabolic rate. But how slow? To find out, Pauli and his colleagues captured 10 brown-throated sloths. They are a three-toed species. The scientists also collected 12 Hoffmann’s sloths, which are a two-toed type. All came from a study site in northeastern Costa Rica. Here, the sloths live among a variety of  em habitats  em . These range from pristine forest and  em cacao   em (Ka-KOW)  em agroforest  em  to fields of banana and pineapple.  p 
 p “It’s really a quilt of different habitat types,” Pauli says. And it’s one that allowed the researchers not only to study many habitats at once but also to more easily capture and track sloths than if they were in dense jungle.  p 
 p Many elements come in more than one form, or  em isotope  em  (EYE-so-toap). The researchers injected the sloths with water labeled with specific isotopes of oxygen and hydrogen, then released the animals back to the wild. After 7 to 10 days, the scientists again captured the sloths and sampled their blood. By seeing how much of the isotope labels remained, they could calculate the sloths’  em field metabolic rate  em . This is the energy that an organism uses throughout the day.  p 
 p The field metabolic rate for the three-toed sloths was 31 percent lower than that for two-toed sloths. It also was lower than that found in any mammal that was not hibernating. The researchers reported this May 25 in the  em American Naturalist  em .  p 
 p  img alt="tree sloth" class="caption" src=" sites student.societyforscience.org files 2016 350-inline-2-sloths.jpg" style="width: 350px; height: 269px; float: right;" title="This is a Hoffmann’s sloth, a type of two-toed sloth. It has a low metabolic rate but not as low as its three-toed cousins. ~~ Geoff Gallice Wikimedia Commons (CC-BY 2.0)" “There seems to be kind of a cool combination of behavior and physiological characteristics that lead to these tremendous cost savings for three-toed sloths,” Pauli says. (By physiological traits, he means those relating to the animals' bodies.) Three-toed sloths spend a lot of time in the forest canopy eating and sleeping. They don’t move much. Their two-toed cousins “are much more mobile,” he notes. “They’re moving around a lot more.”  p 
 p But there’s more to it than that, Pauli observes. “Three-toed sloths have the capacity to fluctuate their body temperature,” he points out. People need to keep their temperature within a few degrees of normal to stay healthy. But not sloths. They can let theirs rise and fall with the outdoor temperature. This is a bit like how a lizard or snake might regulate its body temperature. “Those are big cost savings to let your body change with your surroundings.”  p 
 p  em Arboreal folivores   em (AR-bo-REE-ul FO-li-vors) are vertebrates that live in trees and eat only leaves. The new data help to explain why there aren’t more types of sloths and other arboreal folivores, Pauli and his colleagues argue. More than one-third of Earth’s land is forested. That means there is lots of treetop space for these critters. Yet few vertebrate species choose to subsist on tree leaves. In contrast, other types of animals have heavily  em diversified  em  throughout habitats that take up much less space globally. For instance, there are 15 species of finch on just the Galapagos Islands. And there are hundreds of species of cichlid fish in Africa.  p 
 p But there are constraints on being a leaf eater that lives in a tree. Leaf eaters tend to be big. The elephant and giraffe are good examples. They need a body big enough to accommodate a large digestive system that can process all of the leaf matter they need to survive. But an animal that lives in the trees can’t be too big. It needs lots of special adaptations for an arboreal life. And that might prevent the rapid diversification seen among other groups, such as Darwin’s finches, Pauli says.    p 
 p Indeed, this might be why arboreal folivory is one of the world’s rarest lifestyles, says Pauli. It “is really tough living.”  p 
 p  strong agroforestry   strong    A type of agriculture that incorporates trees into the landscape.  p 
 p  strong arboreal  strong     Living in the trees. Often this term refers to an animal.  p 
 p  strong canopy      strong (in botany) The top layer of a forest, where the branches of the tallest trees overlap.  p 
 p  strong cichlids      strong A freshwater fish that has become popular in the aquarium trade. This animal’s family is large and diverse. It includes at least 1,650 species, many of which are eaten. Although found all over the world, they are most diverse in Africa and South America.  p 
 p  strong cocoa      strong A powder derived from the solids (not the fats) of beans that grow on the  em Theobroma cacao  em  plant, also known as the cocoa tree or  strong cacao  strong . Cocoa is also the name of a hot beverage made from cocoa powder (and sometimes other materials) mixed with water or milk.  p 
 p  strong diverse  strong     (in biology) A range of species that differ broadly. The breadth of their differences may occur in a limited region (such as a local ecosystem) or as measured overa wide zone (such as across the planet).  p 
 p  strong diversify  strong     (n. diversification) To make or become more diverse. In the environment, it would refer to an ecosystem that has a wider array of species.  p 
 p  strong ecology  strong    A branch of biology that deals with the relations of organisms to one another and to their physical surroundings. A scientist who works in this field is called an  strong ecologist  strong .  p 
 p  strong evolution  strong    (v. to evolve) A process by which species undergo changes over time, usually through genetic variation and natural selection. These changes usually result in a new type of organism better suited for its environment than the earlier type. The newer type is not necessarily more “advanced,” just better adapted to the conditions in which it developed.  p 
 p  strong family  strong     A taxonomic group consisting of at least one genus of organisms.  p 
 p  strong fluctuate  strong      Conditions that can change dramatically over a fairly short period of time, usually due to outside influences. For instance, temperatures fluctuate (rise and fall) throughout the course of a day. Average rainfall or snow rates can fluctuate from year to year.  p 
 p  strong folivore  strong     A plant eater that specializes in eating leaves.  p 
 p  strong folivory  strong      A term for a lifestyle that includes or depends on leaf-eating.  p 
 p  strong habitat  strong    The area or natural environment in which an animal or plant normally lives, such as a desert, coral reef or freshwater lake. A habitat can be home to thousands of different species.  p 
 p  strong isotopes  strong     Different forms of an element that vary somewhat in weight (and potentially in lifetime). All have the same number of protons but different numbers neutrons in their nucleus. As a result, they also differ in mass.  p 
 p  strong mammal      strong A warm-blooded animal distinguished by the possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for feeding the young, and (typically) the bearing of live young.  p 
 p  strong habitat  strong    The area or natural environment in which an animal or plant normally lives, such as a desert, coral reef or freshwater lake. A habitat can be home to thousands of different species.  p 
 p  strong hibernation    strong   A state of inactivity that some animals enter to save energy at certain times of year. Bears and bats, for example, may hibernate through the winter. During this time, the animal does not move very much, and the use of energy by its body slows down. This eliminates the need to feed for months at a time.  p 
 p  strong hydrogen    strong   The lightest element in the universe. As a gas, it is colorless, odorless and highly flammable. It’s an integral part of many fuels, fats and chemicals that make up living tissues.  p 
 p  strong isotopes  strong     Different forms of an element that vary somewhat in weight (and potentially in lifetime). All have the same number of protons but different numbers neutrons in their nucleus. As a result, they also differ in mass.  p 
 p  strong metabolism      strong The set of life-sustaining chemical reactions that take place inside cells and bigger structures, such as organs. These reactions enable organisms to grow, reproduce, move and otherwise respond to their environments.  p 
 p  strong oxygen      strong A gas that makes up about 21 percent of the atmosphere. All animals and many microorganisms need oxygen to fuel their metabolism.  p 
 p  strong physiology      strong The branch of biology that deals with the everyday functions of living organisms and how their parts function. Scientists who work in this field are known as  strong physiologists  strong .  p 
 p  strong range  strong    The full extent or distribution of something. For instance, a plant or animal’s range is the area over which it naturally exists.  p 
 p  strong sloth   strong    A slow moving, plant-eating mammal that lives in tropical rainforests in the Western Hemisphere. Most of these tree dwellers sleep all but four to nine hours a day.    p 
 p  strong species  strong     A group of organisms that share similar traits and ancestry, and can usually breed to produce fertile offspring. It is also the basic rank in a classification system called taxonomy. A species name (such as  em sapiens)   em  is usually given with the next highest rank, the genus (such as  em Homo)  em .  p 
 p  strong vertebrate      strong The group of animals with a brain, two eyes, and a stiff nerve cord or backbone running down the back. This group includes amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals and most fish.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.sciencenews.org blog wild-things three-toed-sloths-are-even-more-slothful-two-toed-sloths?tgt=nr" Read another version of this story at  em Science News  em .  a   p 
 p J.N. Pauli et al.  a href="http:  www.journals.uchicago.edu doi abs 10.1086 687032" Arboreal folivores limit their energetic output, all the way to slothfulness  a .  em American Naturalist  em . Published online May 25, 2016. doi: 10.1086 687032.   p 
 p S. Ornes. “ a href="https:  student.societyforscience.org article jet-lag-slows-hamster-brains" Jet lag slows hamster brains  a .”  em Science News for Students  em . November 29, 2010.  p 
 p Broth from the bones of Spanish dry-cured ham, like that shown here, could boost heart health, new data suggest.  p 
 p Michal Osmenda Wikimedia Commons (CC-BY-2.0)  p 
 p Rocks may be made from a single mineral or many. But knowing the recipe of the molecules that make up a mineral tells only part of its story. One scientist wants to broaden their biographies.  p 
 p SeventyFour iStock Getty Images Plus  p 
 p These are okapi. Don’t let the stripes fool you. They are closely related to giraffes, not zebras.   p 
 p Alan Eng Wikimedia Commons (CC BY-2.0)  p 
 p The germs that cause strep throat infections can hide out in the tonsils.  p 
 p vitapix iStock Getty Images Plus  p 
 p Thousands of students protested in support of climate change action in London, England, on February 15. A global strike is planned for March 15.  p 
 p Socialist Appeal Flickr (CC BY 2.0)  p 
 p Corals provide the base of a unique community of ocean creatures. But ocean acidification may make it difficult for corals to build their beautiful structures.  p 
 p iBorisoff iStockphoto  p 
 p Cameras set up in the Arctic’s Chukchi and Bering seas (one shown) record the amount of light that reaches water through the ice. More light means more algal blooms.  p 
 p K. Frey Clark University  p 
 p Data from two U.S. agencies linked climate change with more rain in Eastern states — and flooding, such as here, in South Carolina.   p 
 p SC National Guard Flickr  p 
