 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  strong We will open for our 2019 season on April 6th.  strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  strong  span style="font-size: 10pt;" See you in the spring!  span   strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 10pt;"  strong  a href="https:  gallifords.com " Galliford's Restaurant &amp; Tavern:  a  Open Year-Round  strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  strong Registration for 2019 sloth encounters will open in spring 2019. Please check back soon for more information.  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #ff0000;"  strong Please be aware that sloth encounters for 2019 CANNOT be reserved or purchased in advance before registration opens.  strong   span   p 
 p Hang out with a two-toed sloth during  strong  a href="http:  www.earthltd.org" EARTH Limited  a   strong ‘s new sloth encounters! These encounters provide zoo visitors with the opportunity to meet one of our sloths up close. Half of the proceeds from sloth encounters will be donated to the a href="http:  www.theslothinstitutecostarica.org " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"  strong  Sloth Institute  strong   a , and the remaining 50% will help support EARTH Limited’s educational programming at our zoo.  p 
 p Each encounter session will last approximately 30 minutes. Encounters begin with a brief talk focusing on sloth biology, ecology, and conservation efforts. Participants will then enter the sloth enclosure where they will be able to feed a sloth and possibly touch her. Please be aware that  strong we cannot guarantee touching  strong  as it will depend on the animal’s comfort during the encounter. strong  Participants will NOT be able to hold the sloths.  strong   p 
 p  strong *Spots are very limited and must be reserved online in advance.  strong  Zoo passes, coupons, discounts, or other offers cannot be applied to the price of sloth encounters. Sorry, we cannot take requests for special dates times at this time.  p 
 p  strong Non-members:  strong  $69 person br  strong EARTH Member:  strong  $59 person  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 10pt;"  strong Note to members:  strong  To receive your member discount, click “enter promotional code” when you register. Your code is the first 5 letters of your last name + the first 2 letters of your first name. Example: John Smith’s code would be SMITHJO. If your last name is fewer than 5 letters, just use your full last name + the first 2 letters of your first name, Jane Doe’s code would be DOEJA.  span   p 
 p  strong Note:   strong Pricing for sloth encounters DOES NOT include admission to the zoo. Admission is required and must be purchased separately either at the zoo’s entrance or  a class="" href="https:  reservations.southwickszoo.net Info.aspx?EventID=9" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow"  strong online  strong   a .  p 
 p Prepare to be amazed viewing giraffes, lions, tigers, white rhinos, and chimpanzees in our beautiful 200 acres of naturalistic habitats. Southwick’s Zoo is home to 850 exotic animals from around the world and our interactive exhibits are fun for all ages. Stroll leisurely through our 35 acre deer forest, where the deer roam free or ride the Woodlands Express train ride through the North American Elk habitat and wetlands. View the African Plains and other animal exhibits from new heights on our Skyfari Skyride.  p 
 p Learn about your favorite wild animals, such as a kangaroo, armadillo or chameleon at the EARTH Discovery Center. Get up close and personal with farm animals, featuring chickens, goats and alpacas at our Petting Zoo. Parakeet Landing will offer you the chance to see and hear exotic birds. Don’t miss out on animal presentations, our kid’s play park, pony and camel rides, kiddie rides and so much more!  p 
 p © 2019 Southwicks Zoo. All rights reserved.  |    a href=" privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a   p 
