 p 
            We use cookies to improve your experience of this website. To find out more information about our cookies, please see our  a href="http:  www.belfastzoo.co.uk about-us Cookies.aspx" cookies policy  a .
             input name="ctl00$AETag1$ctl00$ctl00$btnContinue" type="button" id="ctl00_AETag1_ctl00_ctl00_btnContinue" value="Continue" onclick="setCookieVal();" 
          p 
 p  strong Choloepus didactylus  strong   p 
 p Sloths spend the majority of their lives upside down, in the trees. These unusual animals eat, sleep, mate and give birth from their position high among the branches in the rainforest.  p 
 p Sloths are the only mammal with hair that grows in the opposite direction than other animals. This allows rain water to run off the body when hanging upside down. The hair of the sloth is also unusual as it collects algae. The algae gives the sloth a greenish tint which helps them camouflage in their treetop home.  p 
 p These solitary animals have a low metabolic rate which allows them to survive on little or poor quality food. Due to this, a sloth only comes to the ground once a week to go to the toilet.  p 
 p Belfast Zoo is home to one Linne’s two toed sloth, named Enrique.  p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong  br Rainforest  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong  - Omnivore br Linne’s two toed sloths eat insects, buds, leaves, tender shoots, carrion and small prey.  p 
 p  strong Size  strong   br The Linne’s two toed sloth can be up to 70 centimetres long and can weigh up to nine kilograms.  p 
 p  strong Location  strong   br Linne’s two toed sloths are found in forest canopies, from coast to mountain, in South America.  p 
 p  strong Conservation status  strong   br The IUCN has determined that the Linne’s two toed sloth is not currently in danger of extinction, in the wild.  p 
 p  strong Threats  strong   br Habitat destruction and climate change are the main threats facing the sloth. They are also threatened by hunting. They are hunted for food, their claws are used to make necklaces and their fur is used to produce saddlecloths.  p 
 p  strong Current population  strong   br There are no exact numbers for Linne’s two toed sloth in the wild. They are common in their current habitat.  p 
 p  strong Zoo population  strong  br Linne’s two toed sloths are managed under an ESB. There are nearly 400 Linne’s two toed sloths in zoos worldwide.  p 
 p  strong IUCN  strong  - International Union for Conservation of Nature  p 
 p  strong ESB  strong  - European Studbook  p 
 p Belfast Zoo  br 
Antrim Road,  br 
Belfast, BT36 7PN  p 
 p Tel:  strong 028 9077 6277   strong  br 
Email:  a href="mailto:info@belfastzoo.co.uk"  strong info@belfastzoo.co.uk  strong   a   p 
 p  strong  a href="http:  www.belfastzoo.co.uk contact-us media media.aspx" Media  a    strong   p 
 p ©Belfast City Council  p 
