 p class="sign" Opening times  p 
 p We are open until  p 
 p  span 4PM  span today  p 
 p class="pin" Find us  p 
 p Sat Nav: NR16 2HE,
Kenninghall Road  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.google.com maps dir Current+Location NR16%202HE,%0D%0AKenninghall%20Road" target="_blank" View Map  a   p 
 p Sloths have such a slow metabolism that they only defecate (poo) once a week!  p 
 p Sloths are related to armadillos and anteaters (Order Xenartha) and are solitary and mainly nocturnal. Unlike most mammals their fur grows downwards and is also grooved, allowing algae to collect and grow - giving the sloth a perfect green camouflage!  p 
 p Size Head-body length: 46-86cm br 
Weight: 4.1-9kg   p 
 p This species of sloth is found in tropical rainforests in northern South America. They are arboreal, spending most of their time up in the trees - in fact they only come down to change feeding trees or to defecate!  p 
 p They feed mainly on leaves, fruits and small twigs. They possess cellulose-digesting bacteria in their multi-chambered stomachs, which aids their slow digestion!  p 
 p As well as eating, sleeping and mating – these sloths actually give birth hanging upside down! Females will have one young after around a 6 month pregnancy.  p 
 p Two-toed sloths are not considered to be endangered as many are found in protected areas. They are also not usually hunted for the bushmeat trade as they are found very high in the forest canopy.  p 
 p class="latinName" Aonyx cinereus  p 
 p class="latinName" Callithrix pygmaea niveiventris  p 
 p class="latinName" Lemur catta  p 
 p class="latinName" Camelus bactrianus  p 
 p CHIRP br 
ROAR br 
OR SQUAWK...  p 
 p KEEP UP TO DATE WITH THE LATEST NEWS...  p 
 p  a href=" newsletter-subscription " class="button" Sign Up  a   p 
 p class="footerTerms" ©2019 The Zoological Society of East Anglia Limited. Registered In England - Company Number 08250951. Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 1150158. Registered Office: The Grove, Kenninghall Road, Banham, Norfolk, NR16 2HE.  p 
 p class="footerCredit"  a href="http:  www.creativesponge.co.uk" Site by Creative Sponge  a   p 
