 p Information for students K-6 about the  strong sloth bear  strong , its appearance, behaviours and life cycle.  p 
 p ©Getty Images  p 
 p The word ‘sloth’ means laziness, extreme sloppiness. A sloth bear looks very shaggy and untidy, as though it was too lazy to comb its hair. It looks a bit like another animal called a sloth. Scientists thought it was part of the sloth family, then discovered that it was part of the bear family. Sloth bears sometimes hang upside down from tree branches and young ones ride on their mother's back, very like sloths do. However, the sloth bear is not slow moving like the sloth, which hardly moves all day.  p 
 p ©Getty Images  p 
 p Sloth bears have long, shaggy black fur on their heads and backs, with a large white or yellow Y-shaped patch of hair on their chests. The hair around the neck and back of the head is longer, like a mane. They are the only bear to have long hair on their ears. The fur on their undersides is much shorter. Their tails are long for a bear, about 15 cm long.   They have no front teeth, and they suck termites out of their nests through this gap. They close their nostrils when raiding termite mounds so they don’t inhale the insects,  and use their lips like the nozzle of a vacuum cleaner. They have a long muzzle with loose lips that can move easily. Their 7 cm long, curved claws are used for breaking up the hard termite nests.  p 
 p They grow up to about one and a half metres in length. Adult males can weigh around140 kilograms, and adult females can weigh around 95 kilograms.  p 
 p Sloth bears are found in Southeast Asia, in Sri Lanka,  India, Bangladesh, Nepal, and Myanmar (Burma). They live in a variety of warm, humid forests or in grasslands near the equator. They can live in different kinds of forest - dry thorn forests or wet tropical forests.  p 
 p ©Getty Images  p 
 p Sloth bears are mainly nocturnal, which means they are most active at night and sleep most of the day. When threatened, they stand on their hind legs and show the claws of their front paws. They are excellent tree climbers, and are often seen hanging upside down from a tree branch. Because they live in places that do not have cool winters, sloth bears do not hibernate, but in the tropical rainy season they sometimes stay in caves, and wait out the rains in a rather sleepy state.   p 
 p Sloth bears are omnivorous, eating both plants and meat. However, their diet is mostly termites and ants that they suck out of their nests, making very loud snuffling noises as they do so.  They also eat fruit and flowers, including figs and mango. They knock beehives out of trees and eat the honey and bee larvae. They sometimes raid farms and feed on crops such as sugarcane, corn and yams. They eat carrion, which is any dead animals they might find, and they also eat anything left over from the meal of an animal such as a tiger.  p 
 p A sloth bear cub. ©Getty Images  p 
 p There is not a set time or season of the year when sloth bears mate. About seven months after mating with a male, a female gives birth to cubs, usually two. They are born in a nest the mother makes in a cave or under rocks. Cubs are blind and helpless at birth, but after a month come out of the den and ride on their mother's back as she travels about the forest, which no other bears do. The cubs stay with their mother for about 2-3 years, or until they are about 22 kilograms in weight, when they begin to live on their own.  p 
 p ©Getty Images  p 
 p The sloth bear has been classified as Vulnerable. This means they are likely to become endangered if action is not taken to conserve them. Their habitat is rapidly disappearing as it is cut down to make way for human homes and farms.   Luckily, in India, conservation efforts to save the Bengal tiger have helped conserve sloth bears and other animals that share the habitat. It is estimated that there are between 1000 and 7000 sloth bears in the wild.  p 
 p  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.arkive.org sloth-bear melursus-ursinus image-G6376.html" http:  www.arkive.org sloth-bear melursus-ursinus image-G6376.html  a   p 
 p Welcome to www.kidcyber.com.au, a website established in 1999 for primary students and teachers.  p 
 p  strong We provide:  strong   p 
 p Easy to understand text for student research, including material for primary school students K-6 br Easy to navigate format br Units of work and lesson plans for teachers on a variety of topics in key learning areas br kidcyberQuests: student webquest assignments with links to information sites for research, project ideas, evaluation br 'Ask a kidcyber Researcher' feature where students can request specific information about a topic br Advice to parents about helping with school homework assignments and projects  p 
 p  strong Who are we?  strong   p 
 p The writers and publishers of kidcyber are Shirley Sydenham, a primary teacher, and Ron Thomas, a primary teacher-librarian. We are authors (together, individually and with others) of numerous books for teachers and kids, published in Australia and overseas. Recent books written together include Using the Library 1, 2 &amp; 3; Thinking Through Themes (4 titles: Air, Fire, Water, Earth); and The Perfect School Project, published by and available at Teaching Solutions.  p 
 p  strong Our Audience  strong   p 
 p Students from K to 8, their teachers and parents. br Homeschool students and their parents. br Teacher Librarians  p 
 p If you: br – need more help with this topic br – need information for a school project br – find broken links br  a target="_blank" href=" contact" contact kidcyber  a   p 
 p    p 
 p class="text-align-left"  strong © 2018 www.kidcyber.com.au   strong  br WE ARE PROUD SUPPORTERS OF br THE INDIGENOUS LITERACY FOUNDATION  em www.indigenousliteracyfoundation.org.au  em  &amp; br ROOM TO READ  em www.roomtoread.org   em   p 
 p class="text-align-left" DISCLAIMER: In the interest of a safe, educational online experience. kidcyber provides links to other web pages, selected and examined for their appropriateness, to provide more information about a particular topic. kidcyber has no control over the information at these sites or links made from them to others sites, which might be considered inappropriate by some people. kidcyber cannot be held responsible for inappropriate sites Note: all kidcyber topics are regularly checked, updated and added to, so keep checking out this website. strong    strong   p 
 p class="text-align-left" The Australian Copyright Act 1968 (the Act) allows 10% of the number of words on this website to be reproduced and or communicated by any Australian educational institution for its educational purposes provided that the educational institution (or the body that administers it) has given a Notice to Copyright Agency under part VB of the Act. For details of the CAL licence for educational institutions contact: Copyright Agency. Level 15, 233 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +612 9394 7600 Facsimile: +612 9394 7601 E-mail: info@copyright.com.au strong    strong   p 
 p class="text-align-left" Except as permitted under the Act (for example for the services of the Crown or in reliance on one of the fair dealing exceptions i.e. a fair dealing for the purposes of research or study) no part of this website may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, communicated or transmitted in any form or by any means without prior written permission. All inquiries should be made to the copyright owner at us@kidcyber.com.au  p 
