 p Please join is in welcoming our newest baby at the Park, Chewbacca The Sloth. He is named after the Chewbacca character from Star Wars, and goes by Chewie for short.   p 
 p Chewie is a two-toed sloth who was born at Branson’s Promised Land Zoo. His picture eating an apple while on his mama (below) went viral around the world in December 2017.   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" He was weaned from his mom in March of 2018 and moved to his new home at TWP. We are so happy he is here!    p 
 p style="text-align: center;" Chewbacca is starting out in the Tanganyika Nursery while his special new Behind The Scenes exhibit is built.   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  www.facebook.com twparkfans videos 10156364833614539 " Click here   a  to see him discovering his first moments in the nursery.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"   img style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;" title="Chewbacca The Sloth" src=" media images chewie2.jpg" alt="chewiethesloth" width="379" height="550"   p 
 p Sloths are indigenous of Central and South America. Two-toed sloths spend most of their lives hanging upside down from trees. They cannot walk, so they pull hand-over-hand to move around, at a very slow rate.  p 
 p Two-toed sloths differ from three-toed sloths in their climbing behavior, preferring to descend head first. They like to eat leaves, shoots, fruits, nuts, berries and bark.  p 
 p    p 
 p Hi there! I’m Chewbacca (Chewie for short) and if you couldn’t tell, I am a two-toed sloth. I’m a little over 1 and ½ years old. I’…  p 
 p In 2017 Tanganyika Wildlife Park set the goal of donating $100,000 to conservation organizations around the world. This year in 2018 the Park met that goal.
In 2…  p 
 p In October, Tanganyika Wildlife Park welcomed Monica, our new Indian rhino home. Monica is the first successful Indian rhino born from artificial insemination.&amp;nb…  p 
 p 
Tanganyika Wildlife Park recently welcomed the 54th and 55th giraffe babies to born at the Park. The giraffe calves were born within a week of each other. …  p 
 p 
Tanganyika Wildlife Park introduces a new pricing structure for the 2017 season. For the first time every admission will include at least one animal encoun…  p 
 p You know, existing, as a private zoo in America is very similar to existing as an animal in the wild, everyday brings new challenges to your very existence. For a…  p 
 p 
Tanganyika is a wonderful and interactive place, but it didn’t just become that way over night! The people who work at Tanganyika are the ones who keep th…  p 
 p Dear USDA APHIS:
As an accredited zoological institution, we have some serious concerns with the proposed changes.
First, there seems to be no evidence to warra…  p 
 p Tanganyika Wildlife Park is the perfect venue to host your wedding. Not only is the Park rated one of the best venues in Kansas, with a full line of indoor and ou…  p 
 p  
Tanganyika is a beautiful and interactive place, but it didn’t just become that way overnight! The people who work at Tanganyika are the ones who ke…  p 
 p One of the greatest wildlife conservation failings of our time is the inability to stop the rampant rhino poaching happening throughout Africa and particularly in…  p 
 p We have some amazing educational opportunities at Tanganyika Wildlife Park. In addition to school groups, School’s Out Day Camps, and Scouts progr…  p 
 p  span class="name" Tanganyika Wildlife Park  span  br 
			1000 S. Hawkins Ln. · Goddard, KS 67052 br 
			On the West Edge of Wichita in Goddard br 
			 a href=" sitemap" title="View Sitemap" Sitemap  a 
			  p 
 p ©2019 Tanganyika Wildlife Park.  span class="no-wrap" All rights reserved.  span   p 
 p Website by  a href="http:  www.360ideas.com" target="_blank" title="Wichita Kansas Website Design" 360ideas  a  | See us on  a href="http:  www.360wichita.com Attractions TanganyikaWildlifePark.html" target="_blank" title="Wichita's Visual Directory" 360Wichita  a   p 
