 p class="site-search_intro__tablet-down" Type and then tap 'go' to search…  p 
 p class="site-search_intro__desktop" Type and then press 'enter' to search…  p 
 p  span data-paging-current 1  span  of  span data-paging-total 1  span   p 
 p images  p 
 p Sloths move very slowly and sleep for up to 15 hours a day to conserve their energy. This is mostly down to their diet, which is made up of low-energy food like leaves and fruit.  p 
 p If you spend a lot of time hanging in trees then you need to be able to hold tight, and the sloths have a very powerful grip. Their long claws curve around tree branches like a safety harness.  p 
 p Despite this powerful grip, sloths actually have a relatively low muscle mass of around 25% - mammals usually have around twice as much.   p 
 p You can spot our slow sloths inside  a href=" explore-the-zoo attractions-and-exhibits animal-exhibits spirit-of-the-jaguar" Spirit of the Jaguar  a  where you can find them clinging on to trees or exploring their aerial habitat right above your heads!  p 
 p Our two-toed sloth, named Tina, arrived in 2012 after moving from a zoo in Germany where she was born in 2011.  p 
 p  strong Where they live:  strong  Northern South America  p 
 p  strong Habitat:  strong  Lowland and tropical forest  p 
 p  strong Size:  strong  60 to 70cm  p 
 p  strong Weight:  strong  7-9kg  p 
 p  strong Threats:  strong  Deforestation, hunted for meat and fur  p 
 p 
					We're open from 10am till 4.30pm, with last entry 30 minutes before closing.
				  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" 
					Full opening times
				  p 
 p  strong   strong Right now  strong conservation is critical   strong and species are under threat. We won't stand back and we won't give up.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Act now  p 
 p We've got everything you need for inspirational learning, from curriculum-linked workshops to self-guided visits.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Plan your school trip  p 
 p 
							Chester Zoo, Upton-by-Chester, Chester, . Sat Nav
							. Registered Charity No.
							306077
						  p 
