 p Let’s be honest: It’s all about the faces.  p 
 p Lovers and breeders of alpacas praise their soft and abundant fleece, their calm demeanor and ease of care. Sloth devotees worship the slow-moving jungle creatures by furiously trading memes and videos. Both mammals have come to symbolize all manner of fluffy, perturbed and over-it emotions.  p 
 p Why? Because they’re cute, but also vulnerable and unusual.  p 
 p While most people only get face-time with them once a year — at places like the National Western Stock Show or the Denver Zoo — sloth and alpaca lovers will get their due at local events in the coming weeks.  p 
 p To start, the Downtown Aquarium is celebrating sloths this month with a Sloth Sip ‘n’ Paint at 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 20. Attendees will have a chance to paint a portrait of Aspen, the aquarium’s resident two-toed sloth, while enjoying light appetizers and beverages (with supplies provided). Tickets aren’t cheap at $150 per person, so you’ve been warned.  p 
 p This week also marks the return of  a href="https:  theknow.denverpost.com 2018 02 25 photos-sloth-weekend-denver-downtown-aquarium 177613 " Sloth Weekend, Feb. 23-24  a , at the Downtown Aquarium, 700 Water St. Activities are scheduled between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. and centered around Aspen, including a conservation table with “sloth activities”; animal appearances throughout the day (but not Aspen); a private sloth meet-and-greet for the first 100 guests in line (note: tickets will be handed out at 8:30 a.m. those days); and the all-important, photo-friendly “sleepy time” — a.k.a. watching Aspen nap from a viewing area in the Nautilus Ballroom.  p 
 p Sloth Weekend activities are included in the price of general admission, which is $23 for adults, $22 for seniors, $17 for kids (ages 3-11) and free for kids 2 and under. (There are no goat-yoga-style sessions just yet, but we could easily see a slow-mo sloth-and-Tai-Chi pairing). Visit  a href="https:  www.aquariumrestaurants.com " aquariumrestaurants.com  a  for more details.  p 
 p The Denver Zoo has been promising that a baby sloth is coming this winter. Officials in December confirmed that Charlotte, the zoo’s 23-year-old  a href="https:  www.denverzoo.org animals linnes-two-toed-sloth " target="_blank" rel="noopener" Linne’s two-toed sloth  a , is pregnant and expecting another bundle of molasses in  a href="https:  www.denverzoo.org animals linnes-two-toed-sloth " late February or early March  a . The baby will join dad, Elliot, and big sister, Baby Ruth,  a href="https:  www.denverpost.com 2018 02 01 denver-zoo-baby-sloth-born " who was born Jan. 28, 2018,  a  in their habitat in Bird World, the zoo said.  p 
 p Pro tip: Follow the zoo on  a href="https:  www.facebook.com DenverZoo " target="_blank" rel="noopener" Facebook  a  and  a href="https:  twitter.com denverzoo?lang=en" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Twitter  a , and subscribe on  a href="https:  www.youtube.com user TheDenverZoo" target="_blank" rel="noopener" YouTube  a  for the latest updates on Charlotte and the sloth family — including the baby’s birth news and when visitors can see him or her in person.  p 
 p Less rare but equally beloved are alpacas, the domesticated animals originating from South America that are closely related to llamas (if a bit smaller).  p 
 p You can head over to the Alpaca Extravaganza at the Boulder County Fairgrounds (9595 Nelson Road) in Longmont Feb. 23 and 24. There will be an alpaca fiber and yarn sale, educational seminars, and spinning and weaving demonstrations. And of course, plenty of alpacas in attendance.  p 
 p From March 15 to 17, the Alpaca Owners Association will return after successful shows in 2011, 2013 and 2017 for the 2019 National Alpaca show, which takes over the National Western Complex (4655 Humbodlt St.).  p 
 p The free event unites alpaca lovers, fiber artists, arts and craftspeople, alpaca fashion and competitions galore. And if you thought there was no Alpaca Selfie Booth this year, you’d be very wrong. The show runs 8 a.m.-5 p.m. March 15 and 16, and 8 a.m.-noon March 17.  p 
 p On top of that, the Great Western Alpaca show will take over the complex May 3-5. The 17th annual event from Alpaca Breeders of the Rockies is focused on best-of-breed traits and bills itself as  a href="https:  www.denverpost.com 2019 01 12 national-western-stock-show-llamas-alpacas " a competitive “halter and walking fleece show.”  a  It’s open to the public 9 a.m.-5 p.m. May 3 and 4, and 9 a.m.-1 p.m. May 5. Call 303-297-1166 or visit  a href="https:  nationalwesterncomplex.com " nationalwesterncomplex.com  a  for details.  p 
 p class="author-desc" John Wenzel is a reporter and critic-at-large for The Denver Post who has written about comedy, music, film, books, fine art, video games and other popular culture over the years.  p 
 p What to do, where to be and what to see, from  a href="https:  www.denverpost.com"  img src="https:  theknow.denverpost.com wp-content themes reverb images dp-logo-blk.png"   a   p 
 p Sign up for our  em Now You Know  em  emails to get breaking entertainment news and weekend plans sent right to your inbox.  p 
 p Your email address, so we can reply:  p 
 p  span class="copyright" An edition of  a href="https:  www.denverpost.com " title="The Denver Post" target="_blank" The Denver Post  a . br 
					All contents Copyright © 2019  a href="https:  www.denverpost.com " title="The Denver Post" target="_blank" The Denver Post  a  or other copyright holders.  span  All rights reserved. br 
					This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed for any commercial purpose.  p 
