 p class="s-char-heading__name" 
                                                                   Pale-throated sloth
                                
                              p 
 p The Pale-throated sloth is a species of three-toed sloth. These sloths have a rounded head with a blunt nose and small external ears. Their limbs are long and weak and the arms are nearly twice the length of the hindlimbs. The hands and feet each have three digits, armed with long, arched claws. The middle claw is the largest and most powerful. Adults are blackish-grey over most of the body, with darker patches on the backs, shoulders, and hips. Males have a bright yellow or orange patch on the back, divided by a central black stripe.   p 
 p He  p 
 p Fo  p 
 p Ar  p 
 p Pr  p 
 p Br  p 
 p So  p 
 p Se  p 
 p Pale-throated sloths are found in northern South America, including Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana, western Venezuela, Colombia, and Brazil north of the Amazon River. They live only in the tropical forests.  p 
 p Pale-throated sloths are solitary animals that spend almost their entire lives in trees. They can hang so securely with their hook-like claws that they even fall asleep in this position. These sloths are known to spend over eighteen hours each day asleep and move through the tree canopy only very slowly. They periodically descend from the trees and move by dragging themselves by their hands. Sloths can stand on their feet, but they can't walk on them. Despite their arboreal lifestyle, these sloths are effective swimmers. Pale-throated sloths communicate using a bird-like whistle call. It is described as an "ai-ai" sound.   p 
 p class="s-diet-nutrition-margin" Pale-throated sloths are herbivores (folivores). They eat only leaves, including those of Cecropia, Ceiba, Elizabetha, and Hevea trees.
  p 
 p Little is known about the reproductive behavior of Pale-throated sloths. It is known that males leave soon after mating without taking part in raising offspring. Females give birth to a single baby, usually in the beginning of the dry season (March - April). The gestation period lasts about 6 months. The young are born already fully furred, and with open eyes. The  baby clings to the mother's underside for the first month of life and begins to take solid food at 3 weeks. The young is fully weaned some time after the first month. Pale-throated sloths reach reproductive maturity at around 3 years of age.  p 
 p There are no major threats to  Pale-throated sloths.  p 
 p The IUCN Red List and other sources do not provide the Pale-throated sloth total population size. This animal is common and widespread throughout its known range. Currently, this species is classified as Least Concern (LC) on the IUCN Red List.
  p 
