 p Adaptation in a  strong population   strong of living things happens as a result of an  em  strong adaptive trait  strong   em . This is any  strong inheritable trait  strong  that increases it’s survival rate so that it can live longer, reproduce longer, and have more offspring (that also have that trait). Adaptive traits can improve animals find food, make a safer home, escape predators, survive cold or heat or lack of water.  p 
 p  strong Sloths  strong  are so well adapted, that despite being slow, they have thrived in their habitat. They are built perfectly for life in the trees ( strong arboreal  strong ) with em  strong  adaptive traits  strong   em  such as arms that are longer than their legs and curved feet for grasping branches. They cannot walk, but are actually good swimmers when the rainforest floods.  p 
 p They move slowly, but this helps them stay unseen by predators. They also grow  strong algae  strong  in their rough, grooved fur that  strong camouflages  strong  them further. They eat leaves that are hard to digest, but have a complex stomach that breaks down and ferments them. They have three extra cervical vertebrae (neck bones) that allows them to turn their heads 270° (three-quarters of the way around) to look all the way over each shoulder. This is a very useful adaptation in a world where predators can be above or below them. All of these  em  strong physical adaptations   strong   em help the three-toed sloth survive in their rainforest habitat.  p 
 p  span style="color: #993366;"  span style="font-size: larger;"  strong For Discussion and Critical Thinking:  strong   span   span  br  br The three-toed sloth has adaptive traits that help it to survive in the rainforest.  p 
 p 1. Name two of the three-toed sloth’s adaptive traits and how they help it avoid predators: br  br 2. Name two of the three-toed sloth’s adaptive traits and how they help it get enough to eat: br  br 3. How do you think the three-toed sloth’ can survive without being able to walk?  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.exploringnature.org graphics in_habitat adapt_sloth.jpg" target="_blank" Download Hi-Res In-Habitat Poster  a   p 
 p class="exp-link-subscribe" Please  a href=" index login?login_redirect= db view Adaptations-of-the-Three-toed-Sloth" Login  a  or  a href=" store subscribe" Subscribe  a  to access downloadable content.  p 
 p class="exp-link-subscribe" Please  a href=" index login?login_redirect= db view Adaptations-of-the-Three-toed-Sloth" Login  a  or  a href=" store subscribe" Subscribe  a  to access downloadable content.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00; font-size: 12pt;"  strong Wild Science Workbook  strong   span  br  em Activities that Bridge Outdoor Exploration with Classroom Science  em  br The activities in Wild Science will integrate outdoor exploration with the understanding and appreciation of science and environmental issues. Using Wild Science as a guide, we invite you to rediscover your sense of wonder about the natural world and share it with the children you know.  p 
 p class="exp-link-subscribe" Please  a href=" index login?login_redirect= db view Adaptations-of-the-Three-toed-Sloth" Login  a  or  a href=" store subscribe" Subscribe  a  to access downloadable content.  p 
 p When you research information you must cite the reference. Citing for websites is different from citing from books, magazines and periodicals. The style of citing shown here is from the MLA Style Citations (Modern Language Association).  p 
 p When citing a  strong WEBSITE  strong  the general format is as follows. br  Author Last Name, First Name(s). "Title: Subtitle of Part of Web Page, if appropriate." Title: Subtitle: Section of Page if appropriate. Sponsoring Publishing Agency, If Given. Additional significant descriptive information. Date of Electronic Publication or other Date, such as Last Updated. Day Month Year of access &lt; URL &gt;.  p 
 p  code Amsel, Sheri. "Adaptations of the Three-toed Sloth" Exploring Nature Educational Resource ©2005-2019. March 19, 2019 br &lt; http:  www.exploringnature.org db view Adaptations-of-the-Three-toed-Sloth &gt;  code   p 
 p To view these resources with no ads, please  a href=" index login?login_redirect= db view Adaptations-of-the-Three-toed-Sloth" Login  a  or  a href=" store subscribe" Subscribe  a  (and help support our site).  p 
