 p Front page layout  p 
 p Site theme  p 
 p Sign up or login to join the discussions!  p 
 p class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org Person" 
       a itemprop="url" href="https:  arstechnica.com author nathan-mattise " rel="author"  span itemprop="name" Nathan Mattise  span   a 
    -   time class="date" data-time="1552390208" datetime="2019-03-12T11:30:08+00:00" Mar 12, 2019 11:30 am UTC  time 
    p 
 p  aside class="related-stories right" 
   h2 class="subheading notched" Ars at SXSW 2019  h2 
	 ul 
	     li  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 03 new-documentary-has-a-good-time-asking-how-gene-editing-might-change-the-world " New documentary has a good time asking how gene editing might change the world  a   li 
       li  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 03 sxsw-2019-from-hey-is-that-mcconaughey-to-a-different-presidential-library " Sloth-by-sloth-west: The good and the Goop of SXSW 2019 (in pictures)  a   li 
       li  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 03 its-time-to-start-caring-about-vr-cinema-and-sxsws-stunners-are-proof " It’s time to start caring about “VR cinema,” and SXSW’s stunners are proof  a   li 
       li  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 03 hbos-elizabeth-holmes-documentary-tells-a-bloody-good-story-of-a-bad-con-job " HBO’s Elizabeth Holmes documentary tells a bloody good story of a bad con job  a   li 
       li  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 03 how-elon-musk-came-to-sxsw-and-launched-a-rocket-to-mars-but-not-really " Clowning on NASA: Impressionist James Adomian on his  em Bond  em -villain Elon Musk  a   li 
      ul 
   span class="read-more"  a class="recommendation-series" href="https:  arstechnica.com series ars-at-sxsw-2019 " View more stories  a   span 
  aside 
AUSTIN, Texas—Growing up in a suburb of a suburb in Pennsylvania, my hometown's main street looked like you might expect: funeral home, gas station convenient mart, VFW pub... and a taxidermy office. (Back then, the state even gave public schools a day off at the start of deer-hunting season.) As someone more interested in playing  a href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2011 01 history-of-graphic-adventures " text-based adventure games  a  afterhours on my dad's work computer, I never saw the inside of that last communal institution. But I had a pretty crude mental image based on context clues: antlers lining the walls, camouflage outerwear tossed over a chair, pickup truck parked out back with dead animals in the bed.  p 
 p Hosting its world premiere this week at South by Southwest, the new documentary  em Stuffed  em  has come to fix this exact kind of misconception. "You get anything from, 'You do taxes?' to 'That's really creepy.'" That's how one profiled taxidermist describes people's reactions when he tells them what he does. (It's easy to see why another taxidermist has rebranded as a "3D-animal preservationist.") "Some folks will lie and say it's not creepy, but in the back of their mind, they think you're Ted Bundy."  p 
 p The reality, of course, has little to do with any kind of fascination with death or killing. If  em Stuffed  em 's ~85-minute ride is to be believed, modern taxidermy is as much if not more about art and nature preservation as it is about dead animals.  p 
 p Watch enough of these industry-spanning documentaries on the festival circuit and you grow to learn the beats: introduce a variety of interesting personalities you may not believe all fit in the same field, explain the techniques requiring more skill and know-how than anticipated, show major use cases, go over the general history, sit in with the community during its peaks (competitions, major conventions, holidays, etc.), and end by hinting at what's the cutting edge or potential challenges lying ahead. That formula has been well-utilized for everything from  a href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2019 01 rodents-of-unusual-size-meet-the-invasive-orange-toothed-pests-of-coastal-erosion " nutria hunting  a  to  a href="https:  arstechnica.com gaming 2018 04 more-human-than-human-review-light-on-killer-robots-killer-on-ai-inspection " artificial intelligence  a .  p 
 p That's not to say Director Erin Derham hasn't made an effective film—quite the opposite. She identified an  em ideal  em  topic for this type of documentary and executed it to perfection. As someone who has never even held a gun, I found the whole thing engaging. Taxidermy turns out to boast a fascinating history, the current ways to make a living felt unexpected, and the personalities and visuals within  em Stuffed  em  can be downright charming.  p 
 p For instance,  em Stuffed  em  shows that the OG of taxidermy, Carl Akeley, turned out to be a major preservationist. "Johnny Depp would be the perfect Akeley," says author Jay Kirk, who wrote the  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.amazon.com dp 0312610734 ?tag=arstech20-20" definitive biography  a . "Kind of zany but morbid." Akeley became so passionate about perfecting his understanding of animals, he'd assemble 100-plus-person teams and travel to Africa solely to observe, sketch, and sculpt. (This was the early 1900s; boats were involved.) While Akeley was out doing these professional sabbaticals, however, he saw others killing so many mountain gorillas that the species was in danger of extinction—thus sparking the man to act. The taxidermy pioneer soon worked with members of Belgium's royalty, convincing them to set aside roughly 200 square miles of forest in the Belgian Congo to create Africa's first national park, according to the  a href="https:  www.amnh.org explore news-blogs news-posts the-man-who-made-habitat-dioramas" American Natural History Museum  a .  p 
 p  em Stuffed  em  offers surprises about the modern industry, too. Some of the elder taxidermists working today, for instance, can fondly recall the  a href="https:  japecake.wordpress.com 2011 03 16 retrowacktive-the-northwestern-school-of-taxidermy-catalog-1944 " Northwest School of Taxidermy  a —a correspondence-by-mail school that may have been the first formal training in the practice (today, there are plenty of reputable in-person options). Viewers also spend time with Tim Bovard, the last full-time taxidermist at a major US museum, who is a hero among modern taxidermists for his role mentoring young professionals (he mentored Allis Markham, one of the young taxidermists profiled heavily in  em Stuffed  em ).  p 
 p The documentary visits national conferences and competitions, where taxidermists from seemingly all walks of life compete for awards (winning at something like the  a href="http:  caltaxidermy.com" California Coalition of Taxidermists  a  show can be career-altering). And it flashes to alternative shops like  a href="https:  www.sarina-brewer.com new-york-times.html" Sarina Brewer's  a . While still a preservationist (none of the artists included in  em Stuffed  em  work with anything that hasn't died naturally and been acquired ethically), her goal is more art than accurate preservation. She showcases creations like the  a href="https:  www.sarina-brewer.com archive taxidermy-art-fantasy.html#PhotoSwipe1552140747280" Goth Griffin,  a  a combination cat griffin, and a mergoat named  a href="https:  www.sarina-brewer.com archive taxidermy-art-fantasy.html#PhotoSwipe1552140674304" Capricorn  a , made by merging a stillborn goat, a carp, and wings.  p 
 p  em Stuffed  em  ultimately delights by taking our limited or perhaps downright ignorant understanding of this niche field and using that for maximum impact. For every taxidermist who admits their parents should have probably been concerned ("I'd get on my bike and look for road kill, and I still have a memory, six or seven years old, being kind of embarrassed. I'd wait sometimes half an hour, ride back and forth until there were no cars around, then I'd jump off my bike, put my gloves on, put it in a bag, bury it in the woods, and come back months later and clean up all the bones," says  a href="https:  www.taxidermy.net threads 385579 " Daniel Meng  a , now a taxidermy champion who has helped places like the Cleveland Museum), the film subverts expectations with a project like  a href="https:  www.amnh.org explore preserving-lonesome-george" George the Galapagos  a  turtle. The last of its species, Lonesome George was adored by the researchers and conservationists who studied him. Preserving George required months of research and effort to capture the tortoise's personality and precise features. "This is rebuilding a subject everyone knew intimately—they knew every wrinkle on George," says taxidermist George Dante. "If I screw this up, it'll be the last piece I ever do."  p 
 p Thanks to  em Stuffed  em , the next time I walk by that old taxidermist space near my parents' house, I won't scuttle by so quickly. Like a watchmaker or woodcarver, this is a speciality field requiring extremely dexterous, precise, and careful abilities, but with a dash of biology and chemistry added. As Allis Markham puts it, taxidermy requires a special mix of obsessive-compulsive intertwined with artist. "Maybe you do end up like Van Gogh, a tortured artist cutting off an ear," she says. "But if we cut off an ear, at least we'd make something from it."  p 
 p  em Listing image by  a href="http:  www.stuffedfilm.com " Jan Balster   Erin Derham   Stuffed  a   em   p 
 p id="reply" You must  a href="https:  arstechnica.com civis ucp.php?mode=login&amp;return_to gaming 2019 03 stuffed-documentary-maybe-taxidermy-isnt-such-a-dead-industry-after-all " class="vote_login" login or create an account  a  to comment.  p 
 p Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox.  p 
 p id="copyright-terms" 
  CNMN Collection br 
  WIRED Media Group br 
  © 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our  a href="https:  www.condenast.com user-agreement " User Agreement  a  (updated 5 25 18) and  a href="https:  www.condenast.com privacy-policy " Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement  a  (updated 5 25 18) and  a href=" amendment-to-conde-nast-user-agreement-privacy-policy " Ars Technica Addendum  a  (effective 8 21 2018). Ars may earn compensation on sales from links on this site.  a href=" affiliate-link-policy " Read our affiliate link policy  a . br 
   a href="https:  www.condenast.com privacy-policy #california" Your California Privacy Rights  a  br 
  The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. br 
   a href="https:  www.condenast.com online-behavioral-advertising-oba-and-how-to-opt-out-of-oba #clickheretoreadmoreaboutonlinebehavioraladvertising(oba)" Ad Choices  a 
  p 
