 p class="blog-post-categories" 
                               a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog category animal-sanctuary " Animal Sanctuary  a 
                                         •  a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog category nature " Nature  a 
                          p 
 p class="blog-post-date" October 5, 2018  p 
 p The Animal Sanctuary is home to three beautiful, slow-moving, two-toed sloths. All of them have been rescued by the Wildlife Ministry of Costa Rica and put in our care. Two-toed sloths are native to the Guanacaste area but these three were rescued outside of the province. Sloths are very delicate creatures due to their slow metabolism, so nursing them back to health is a challenge in itself.  p 
 p Due to more media awareness, many people became fascinated with sloths and International Sloth Day was created. This special day was designed to raise awareness about the sloth life cycle and natural habitat as well as, educate people about this loveable animal.  p 
 p The following are stories about our resident sloths:  p 
 p Diesel is three years old and was rescued when he was just a baby. He was brought  span style="text-decoration: line-through" in  span  to a rescue center within a bag that smelled like diesel – hence the name. He suffered severe skin burns and infections due to the exposure to the substance. In fact, it is a small miracle that he is alive today. Fighting infections and diseases is a hard process for sloths. Infections tend to spread faster than what their immune system can fight. For Diesel to be able to bounce back at such a young age shows his resilient nature!  p 
 p  strong Fun facts about Diesel:  strong   p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Shown in picture: Diesel during feeding time.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Mia loving her nap spot.  p 
 p As sloths go, Mia has a very distinct personality! She was found in a very bad health state of dehydration and malnutrition in the province of Limon (Caribbean Coast). She was transferred to the Sloth Sanctuary located in this area for immediate help. The Sloth Sanctuary works to rescue, rehabilitate, and, if possible, liberate injured sloths. After Mia’s rehabilitation was done, it was determined that she could not be released due to high exposure to human contact and dependency. Given this situation, the right authorities were contacted for relocation to a sanctuary that could provide the best habitat and living conditions for her longterm. And as so, Mia became part of the Diamante family. She is currently 4 years old.  p 
 p  strong Fun fact about Mia:  strong   p 
 p Our most widely-known and asked for sloth is Lucy. Her popularity comes with reason. She is the friendliest and most show-off of the three sloths. She is a seven-year-old, blonde color sloth and loves to come down to eat in front of people during the daily 9:30 am feeding. Lucy was found and rescued in San Jose, the capital city, with burns on her hands and feet from electrical wires. One of the biggest threats to sloths near towns and cities are the electrical cables that run through their habitats. If and when they decide to move, they prefer to do so hanging from branches than coming down to the ground; therefore they would rather risk crossing an electrical cable than strolling on the ground.  p 
 p  strong Fun facts about Lucy:  strong   p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Lucy coming down for the morning feeding  p 
 p If you want to see sloths in Costa Rica, this is your perfect opportunity. Diamante’s sloths are in an open habitat, where you can get a close view of them. We have daily feedings at 9:30 am, 12:30 pm and 3:30 pm in which our caretaker will educate you about them. The following passes will allow you to experience The Animal Sanctuary.  p 
 p Pura Vida!  p 
 p class="blog-post-tags" 
           strong Tags:   strong 
                     a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog tag animal-sanctuary " animal sanctuary  a 
                     •  a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog tag costa-rica " costa rica  a 
                     •  a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog tag sloths " SLOTHS  a 
                     •  a href="https:  diamanteecoadventurepark.com blog tag sloths-in-costa-rica " sloths in costa rica  a 
                    p 
 p class="activity-tagline" 
              Open 8:30am to 4:30pm | Self Guided Tour
              p 
 p class="activity-summary" Diamante’s sanctuary has a wide variety of animals. Guests can interact with animals with up-close viewing.  p 
 p class="activity-summary" Diamante’s sanctuary has a wide variety of animals. Guests can interact with animals with up-close viewing.  p 
 p class="activity-tagline" 
              Best Value, #1 on Trip Advisor, Most Popular!
              p 
 p class="activity-summary" Experience It All! Diamante’s Adventure Pass allows you the opportunity to experience a full day of adventure and activities.  p 
 p class="activity-summary" Experience It All! Diamante’s Adventure Pass allows you the opportunity to experience a full day of adventure and activities.  p 
 p  strong In USA and CANADA call us TOLL FREE:  a href="tel:18004645554" 1-800 464 5554  a  | In COSTA RICA call:  a href="tel:50621055200" (506) 2105-5200  a   strong   p 
 p  strong In USA and CANADA call us TOLL FREE:  a href="tel:1-800%20464%205554" 1-800 464 5554  a  | In COSTA RICA call:  a href="tel:50621055200" (506) 2105-5200  a   strong   p 
 p style="text-align: left;"  a href="https:  www.tripadvisor.com Attraction_Review-g7182722-d7312846-Reviews-Diamante_Eco_Adventure_Park-Playa_Matapalo_Province_of_Guanacaste.html"  img class="size-full wp-image-1040 alignleft" src="https:  fh-sites.imgix.net sites 1313 2018 05 20180759 Screen-Shot-2018-07-20-at-12.07.29-PM.png?auto=compress%2Cformat&amp;w=1000&amp;h=1000&amp;fit=max" alt="" width="59" height="36"   a  span style="font-weight: 400; font-size: 10pt;" See What Our Customers Are saying  span   p 
