 p  strong What do sloths eat? br 
  strong Sloths are classed as herbivores. Their diet consists mainly of leaves but occasionally they will eat fruit and they have been known to eat bird’s eggs, lizards and insects. In the wild, they live in the rainforest so have access to a wide range of trees and plant species. At Folly Farm, our sloths eat a lot of vegetables and are particularly fond of asparagus and baby corn!  p 
 p  strong Do they have any predators? br 
  strong They do. They include anacondas, harpy eagles, ocelots and jaguars.  p 
 p  strong Why are they so still for so long? br 
  strong It’s due to their low energy diet. They try to save what little energy they have. They do this by moving very slowly and deliberately. And by sleeping up to 15 hours a day!  p 
 p  strong How fast (or slow) do they move? br 
  strong In a tree, it’s about three metres per minute, but on the ground, it’s a little slower at only two metres per minute. They’re actually quite dangerous because their claws are razor sharp but they’re not likely to catch you.  p 
 p  strong Can I adopt a sloth? br 
  strong Yes!  We offer  a href="https:  www.folly-farm.co.uk adopt-an-animal sloth-adoption " sloth adoption  a  – the perfect gift for any lover of sloths.  p 
 p Although listed as least concern there is a decrease in numbers in the wild. This is mainly down the destruction of their natural habitat. It’s actually quite difficult to get a real idea of numbers in the wild as sloths and people have very little contact.  p 
 p Partial to a nice bit of asparagus every now and again you’ll more than likely spot Tuppee curled in a ball and catching ‘forty winks!’  If you love sloths, you can  a href="https:  www.folly-farm.co.uk adopt-an-animal sloth-adoption " adopt a sloth  a  today for yourself or someone special.  p 
 p They get their name from the two large claws on their forelimbs. These can grow up to 7.5cm in length. The claws have a super strong grip and some sloth have been known to remain hanging from the trees long after death!  p 
 p They are unique in the animal world in that they do spend most of their life upside down. They eat, sleep and even give birth upside down and because of this, their internal organs have actually re-positioned over a period of time.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Facts about two toed sloths  p 
 p class="zoo-membership__information" We're proud to be members of the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA) and the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). Our membership means we share knowledge with leading zoos across the UK and Europe, and we learn from them too.  p 
 p class="cta__copy" Click here to adopt a sloth from only £29  p 
 p class="cta__copy" The perfect gift as the fun lasts a whole year  p 
 p class="cta__copy" With your support, we've been helping with a project to reintroduce Amur leopards to the wild  p 
 p class="site-footer__copyright" Copyright © Folly Farm 2019  p 
 p Begelly br 
Kilgetty br 
Pembrokeshire br 
SA68 0XA br 
 a href="tel:01834812731" Tel: 01834 812731  a   p 
 p class="site-footer__notification-text" This website uses cookies to ensure the best experience possible. Learn more in our  a href=" privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a   p 
