 p Geographic Range:  p 
 p Class: Mammalia  br Order: Cetartiodactyla  br Family: Hippopotamidae   br Genus: Choeropsis br Species: liberiensis  p 
 p The pygmy hippo is a stout animal with a relatively small and rounded head and thick blackish skin. Like the larger Nile hippo, it excretes reddish droplets that soften and protect its skin. This creature is solitary and secretive in the wild. It's not vicious, but can be dangerous when disturbed. The pygmy hippo will attempt to intimidate potential enemies by opening its jaws and baring its canine teeth.  p 
 p  strong Appearance:  strong   br Compared to the Nile hippopotamus, the pygmy hippo is somewhat more than half its size, and its limbs are proportionally longer. Its head is relatively small and rounded; the eyes are not prominent and are set to the side. The thick, naked skin is uniformly blackish and somewhat lighter below. Like the Nile hippo, pygmy hippos exude reddish-colored droplets which soften and protect the skin.  p 
 p  strong  Size:  strong   br Height: about 2.5 feet  br Length: about 5 feet from head to tail  br Weight: 400 to 500 pounds  p 
 p  strong Diet:  strong   br In the wild they eat a diet of tender shoots, leaves, fallen fruit, grasses and vegetation.  p 
 p  strong Reproduction:  strong   br Pygmy hippos haven't shown a set breeding season in captivity, and their behavior in the wild is difficult to determine. A single offspring is born after a 190 to 210 day gestation period. Calves are weaned after six to eight months and are sexually mature at 4 to 5 years of age.  p 
 p  strong Behavior:  strong   br Pygmy hippos are solitary and have home ranges although they aren't territorial. A male wanders over a home range that overlaps with several female ranges and possibly other male ranges. They're not aggressive but can be dangerous when surprised or disturbed. Their foraging on land and in the water creates pathways and canals that other animals use to get through dense underbrush. These pathways are marked with dung that helps fertilize plants.  p 
 p  strong Habitat Range:  strong   br Pygmy hippos are found on swamp edges and bordering dense thickets and by the water in rain forest regions of West Africa, including the countries of Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. Scientists believe them to be in Nigeria.  p 
 p  strong Median Life Expectancy:  strong   br 26 years  p 
 p  strong Threats:  strong   br The main threats to pygmy hippos are habitat loss and hunting. Their habitat is becoming fragmented and developed. Although they're not major targets of the bushmeat trade, opportunistic hunters that stumble upon them will kill them for their meat.  p 
 p Zoo New England participates in the pygmy hippopotamus  a href=" protect inside-our-zoos species-survival-plans " title="Species Survival Plans" Species Survival Plan  a . By sharing research and knowledge, participating institutions work together to establish guidelines that best ensure the health of captive populations, and with success, the survival of otherwise extinct species.  p 
 p Learn more about our hippos in the  a href=" kids-corner all-about-animals pygmy-hippopotamus " title="Pygmy Hippopotamus" Kids' Corner!  a   p 
 p Follow Us:  p 
 p Zoo New England gratefully acknowledges the generous support of our sponsors:  p 
