 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p Werribee Open Range Zoo provides a rare opportunity to get up close to these intriguing animals. You can sit and watch the hippos along the Pula Walking trail as well as seeing them while out on Safari.  p 
 p While the name hippopotamus means ‘river horse’, their closest relatives are actually whales and dolphins!  p 
 p Concerns about the future of this species have grown over the last few years and hippopotamus are now classed as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN red list). According to the IUCN, the most recent population estimates suggest a 7-20% decline in hippo populations over the past decade. Threats to hippos include habitat loss, and poaching for meat and their ivory teeth.  p 
 p Preferred hippo habitat includes slow-moving, fresh water with flat grassy areas nearby for feeding. Unfortunately, this is also the type of habitat that humans seek out and this leads to human-animal conflict – especially as fresh water bodies in Africa can be scarce.  p 
 p Hippos spend most of their time in the water, venturing out at dusk to feed in the cool of the evening. These giant herbivores spend the night grazing on grass before returning to the water at dawn. If the weather is suitable, they will bask in the sun either on land or in mud wallows.  p 
 p While they are herbivores, hippos are very territorial and protective of their families and can be very aggressive. A hippo will head for the water if they feel threatened. Unfortunately, as the valuable resource of water within their habitat is often shared with people, this commonly results in conflict.   p 
 p Adult hippos have between 36–40 teeth, with the canine teeth (tusks) measuring up to 50cm in males especially. These large ivory tusks protrude outside and upwards from their lower jaw. Teeth for grinding food are located at the back of the jaw; their enormous tusks are used purely for fighting and defending themselves.Just like humans, it is important that hippos have clean teeth and gums! It is an important daily task for the Zookeepers at Werribee Open Range to check our hippos gums and teeth to prevent grass seeds becoming lodged and causing infection.   p 
 p Hippos are very important ambassadors at the Zoo, affording visitors the opportunity to connect with these awesome animals, while learning more about their increasingly vulnerable status in wild and what they can do to help them.   p 
 p Our Hippos are proudly supported by Dental Health Services Victoria. To make sure your families teeth and gums are healthly just like our hippos check out  a href="https:  www.dhsv.org.au " Dental Health Services Victoria website  a .  p 
 p Born 1990  p 
 p Primrose is the largest of the three females in the main pond, and mother to Tulip and Lotus. She is very polite and enjoys chin rubs from her keepers.  p 
 p Born 1990  p 
 p Brindabella is a terrific mum to young Pansy. She likes to have things her own way and at feed times will often bang on her gate to let the keepers know she wants to be let in.   p 
 p Born 2003  p 
 p Tulip is the second largest of the three females in the main pond. She is very curious about anything going on in the area, likes to interact with the keepers, and is generally very playful. She is going through the ‘terrible teen’ stage and she is often seen play-sparring with her younger sister Lotus.   p 
 p Born 2008  p 
 p Lotus is now as tall as her mum, but she still has some growing to do over the next few years. She’s quite cheeky and likes to stir up older sister Tulip.  p 
 p Born 2013  p 
 p Pansy is the youngest hippo at Werribee Open Range Zoo, born to mother Brindabella. Some of her favourite foods include treats such as crispy lettuce, watermelon, and other juicy summer fruits. Pansy also loves to porpoise and splash around in the water!  p 
 p While the New Year celebrations have finished, the party’s just beginning at Werribee Open Range Zoo.  p 
 p Tulip the female hippopotamus celebrated her 16th birthday in style today – munching on an animal friendly array of fruits and vegetables shaped into hearts and the number “16”.  p 
 p Pansy, the youngest member of Werribee Open Range Zoo’s hippopotamus bloat, celebrated her 5th birthday today with devoted mum Brindabella by her side.  p 
 p Enjoy an overnight experience at the Zoo in our luxury safari camp. Your stay includes amazing close-up animal encounters, drinks and dips at sunset, a sumptuous dinner, unique night-time activities and breakfast.  p 
 p Animal lovers of all ages will love to get even closer to our magnificent African wildlife on an off road safari.   p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
