 p The best things come in pygmy packages – that’s the saying, right? Pygmy hippos, as their name implies, are smaller than their Nile hippo relative. At full grown, pygmy hippos weigh in at only a few hundred pounds and stand only about three feet tall.  Our pygmy hippo family consists with mom, Zsa Zsa, dad, Pogo, and baby, Holly Berry. They may be “small”, but their personalities are huge.  p 
 p Proud papa Pogo is an easy-going, gentle hippo. He likes stretching himself across the steps of his pool to keep half his body in the water, and half out in the sun. If you have children, there is a chance Pogo will come straight to the viewing window of his habitat to inspect them – makes for a great photo and memory!  p 
 p Experienced mother, Zsa Zsa, plays that role very well! She spends her days with little Holly Berry and teaching her the pygmy hippo ways. While she can sometimes be stern, she is also extremely patient and accommodating with her playful girl.  p 
 p Rounding out our perfect pygmy family is Holly Berry. The little bundle of joy made her debut weighing 9 lbs. at just 5 days old and proceeded to steal the hearts of everyone who saw her little rolls. Her name came to fruition with a naming competition in partnership with Hyppo Gourmet Ice Pops. After a thousand suggestions, tons of cuteness, and hundreds of pops – Holly’s name was revealed and it is fitting. She is sweet as a berry and truly a holly little girl. With every day, she gains confidence and independence. She still sticks close to mom but is not afraid to push her boundaries. We can’t wait to watch her grow up and hit her next milestones – budding teeth and solid foods.  p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p Rivers running through West African forests.  p 
 p Found primarily in Liberia.  p 
 p 350-600 pounds can reach 6 feet in length.  p 
 p 30-50 years.  p 
 p 6-7 months.  p 
 p Mainly consume grasses, leaves, shoots and fallen fruits from forest.  p 
 p  a href="https:  zootampa.org animals african-painted-dog " African Painted Dog  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  zootampa.org animals greater-one-horned-rhinoceros " Greater One-Horned Rhinoceros  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  zootampa.org animals aldabra-giant-tortoise " Aldabra Giant Tortoise  a   p 
 p ZooTampa at Lowry Park is operated by the Lowry Park Zoological Society, an independent 501(c)(3) charitable organization committed to excellence in education, conservation and research. The Zoo is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), and is featured among the “Top 25 Zoos in the U.S” by TripAdvisor (2015) and “10 Best Zoos in the U.S.” by Trekaroo (2015). The Zoo is located at 1101 W. Sligh Avenue in Tampa, one mile west of I-275 (exit 48) and is open seven days a week, from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.  p 
 p © 2019 ZooTampa at Lowry Park. All Rights Reserved.  p 
 p 1101 W. Sligh Avenue Tampa, FL 33604     br P: (813) 935-8552 F: (813) 935-9486  p 
 p Older kids, pre-teens and adults can make their way through an enchanting forest filled with overgrown flowers, huge mushrooms and whimsical fairies – suddenly, everything takes a turn and gets darker! Journey through the ominous forest and get face-to-face with frightening forest trolls and menacing trees that have come to life.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;" This October, guests will have the chance to meet Medusa, The Serpent-headed Gorgon Queen, as she steps out of the pages of mythology and lurks in the darkest shadows of the Zoo. It is believed that those who look her in the eyes are so overwhelmed with fear they turn to stone. Guests must heed the warnings or become a permanent member of her chilling garden of statues! Despite Medusa’s scary appearance, snakes like those replacing her curly locks are critical to local ecosystems. Earlier this year ZooTampa provided a much-needed boost to the wild population of Eastern indigo snakes. The Zoo hopes that Medusa will not only spook guests but also remind them of the importance of these snakes and how the Zoo is committed to protecting them.  span   p 
