 p The hippopotamus, whose hide alone can weigh half a ton, is the third-largest living land mammal, after elephants and white rhinos. The Hippo was considered a female deity of pregnancy in ancient Egypt, but in modern times has been wiped out of that country because of the damage it inflicts on crops. The hippo continues to thrive in other parts of Africa.  p 
 p An enormous, amphibious mammal with smooth, naked skin. An inflated looking body supported on short, thin legs. Huge muzzle (bigger in males), eyes, nostrils and little ears placed high on the head. Canines enlarged as tusks. Brown to gray purple with pink underparts and creases, short bristles on head, back and tail. The hippo's proportions reflect its sedentary, amphibious existence. Its plump and bulky body is set on short, stumpy legs, with each foot having four toes. Although webbed, the toes splay enough to distribute the weight evenly over each toe and therefore adequately support the hippo on land.  p 
 p With very thick skin, especially over the back and rump, the grayish-brown body is almost completely hairless, with only a few bristles around the mouth and the tip of the tail. The hippo has neither sweat nor sebaceous glands but does have unique glands that produce a viscous red fluid, leading to the myth that hippos "sweat blood." The hippo relies on water or mud to keep it cool, and the red fluid may have a similar function, but it is often produced in copious amounts when the animal is excited.  p 
 p 13 feet long and up to 5 feet tall.  p 
 p 1600-3200 kg (males) 655-2344 kg (females).  p 
 p Rivers, swamps and protected areas. Formerly everywhere south of the Sahara where adequate water and grazing occur. Largely confined now to protected areas but still survives in many major rivers and swamps.
	 br Hippos need water deep enough to cover them, within commuting distance of pasture. They must submerge because their thin, naked skin is vulnerable to overheating and dehydration. They avoid rapids, preferring gently sloping, firm bottom where herds can rest half-submerged and calves can nurse without swimming.  p 
 p Watch the deceptively slow movements of a relaxed hippopotamus at the  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com game-reserves kzn_isimangaliso.htm" iSimangaliso Wetland Park  a  in KwaZulu-Natal (2.5 hours from  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com accommodation durban.php" Durban  a ), which has the largest hippo population in South Africa.  p 
 p They can also be seen at the Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park (both in  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com accommodation hluhluwe.php" Hluhluwe  a , KZN), and the  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com game-reserves mpl_kruger.htm" Kruger National Park  a  (about five hours from  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com accommodation magaliesburg.php" Magaliesburg  a  and  a class="near_match" href="https:  www.sa-venues.com accommodation johannesburg.php" Johannesburg  a ) in Mpumalanga.  p 
 p Herbivorous; a grazer, it eats about 40 kg of preferably short grass nightly, mowing a 50 cm swath with its muscular lips.  p 
 p Most mating occurs in the dry season, always in the water, when populations are concentrated. Females conceive at age 9 years and then calve at 2 yearly intervals.  p 
 p Most calves are born in rainy months after an 8 month gestation period.  p 
 p 50 years  p 
 p 
Want to see hippo in their natural habitat? Previously widespread throughout South Africa, the hippo is now only found in the KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo provinces and has been reintroduced into the Eastern and Western Capes...
  p 
 p class="f8" SA-Venues.com has been assisting travellers with their South Africa travel plans since 1999, and is the largest, independent online travel guide for South Africa available in both English and German.  p 
 p class="f8 pad_25t pad_25b" SA-Venues.com © 1999-2019. All Rights Reserved. Find and book hotels and accommodation in South Africa.  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com sitemap.htm" Sitemap  a   span class="lg-icon"   span   p 
