 p     p 
 p Cincinnati's most famous and beloved hippo took her first steps in front of a gaggle of cameras at the Cincinnati Zoo's outdoor hippo habitat Wednesday.  p 
 p Fiona wandered into the enclosure and made a beeline for the pool in Hippo Cove under the watchful eye of zookeepers and her care team. Divers were positioned in the water to make sure the hippo could manage the 9 foot deep pool. She quickly made her way around the pool, nosing up to the glass to check out the myriad reporters and media who were invited to see her.  p 
 p Zoo staff are quick to point out Fiona isn't ready to make her public debut yet. It will still be several weeks at least before that happens. The zoo also cautions once Fiona is on public display, it will likely be for short periods of time and she may choose to be inside or take a nap somewhere out of sight.  p 
 p The zoo reports Fiona is having positive interactions with her mother and father. "It's important to take introductions slowly, so we can't give an exact timeline for when they'll be sharing the same space," the zoo says. "Every milestone, including getting comfortable in the outdoor habitat, gets us closer to that goal."  p 
 p See more photos on our  a href="https:  www.facebook.com media set ?set=a.10154496164571825.1073741882.38686491824&amp;type=3" target="_blank" Facebook page  a .  p 
 p  a href="http:  npr-wvxu.disqus.com ?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.wvxu.org%2Fpost%2Fzoo-fiona-gets-field-trip-outdoor-hippo-habitat" View the discussion thread.  a   p 
 p A month-old hippo born premature is clear to return to her pool. The Cincinnati Zoo says Fiona's IV has been removed and "vets have given her the okay to resume supervised pool time."  p 
 p    p 
 p     p 
 p The extensive care provided to the  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org " target="_blank"  strong Cincinnati Zoo  strong   a 's premature  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org blog 2017 01 25 premature-hippo-baby-updates " target="_blank"  strong baby hippo Fiona  strong   a  highlights the excellent medical attention the approximately 2,000 zoo animals receive. The zoo has its own  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org animals animal-care " target="_blank"  strong veterinarian team  strong   a , and when extra-ordinary treatment is needed, the zoo calls on local doctors and other medical providers for their expertise.  p 
 p  strong Update 02 21 17:   strong The Cincinnati Zoo says, "Fiona took two bottles this morning and seems to have more energy. She's still receiving fluids via IV but she is able to get up and move around with help."  p 
 p class="partnerslabel" 
    p 
