 p OPEN 365 DAYS A YEAR &amp; FREE  p 
 p  a href=" location-directions" Location, Hours &amp; Directions  a   p 
 p OPEN 365 DAYS A YEAR &amp; FREE  p 
 p  a href=" location-directions" Location, Hours &amp; Directions  a   p 
 p class="flickr-album-heading"  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos lincolnparkzoo " title="View Flickr photostream." target="_blank" Random Flickr photos  a   from the album  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos lincolnparkzoo sets 72157644582369844" title="View set on Flickr." target="_blank" Pygmy Hippopotamus  a  by  a href="https:  www.flickr.com people lincolnparkzoo " title="View user on Flickr." target="_blank" Lincoln Park Zoo  a    p 
 p While the pygmy hippopotamus' name offers a comparison to its much-larger cousin, this semi-aquatic mammal is no pipsqueak. Adult pygmy hippopotamuses can reach six feet in length and weigh up to 600 pounds. The animals' gray skin is smooth except for bristles on the lips and tail.  p 
 p The pygmy hippo is found primarily in Liberia, although small numbers of the species can be found in neighboring West African nations.  p 
 p Due to habitat loss, the pygmy hippo is endangered. Because the species is nocturnal and solitary, exact population numbers are unknown, but scientists estimate that 3,000 of the animals may live in the wild. Lincoln Park Zoo cooperatively manages pygmy hippopotamus populations with other institutions in the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.  p 
 p The species makes its home in rivers running through West African forests. They often occupy burrows along the river's edge.  p 
 p Pygmy hippos spend much of their time in the water, as their skin requires frequent moisture to avoid drying out. At night, these herbivores leave the water, venturing into the forest in search of plants and fruits to eat. They establish trails in the forest to ease movement, marking their territory with feces.  p 
 p A solitary species, pygmy hippos generally come together only for breeding. Gestation lasts six-seven months, and young pygmy hippos can swim almost immediately after birth.  p 
 p From Sichuan takin pregnancies to black-footed ferret semen cryopreservation, western lowland gorilla stress hormones to pygmy hippo skin swabs, there’s no such thing as a typical day at the office for Rachel Santymire, Ph.D., director of Lincoln Park Zoo’s Davee Center for Endocrinology and Epidemiology.  p 
 p  a href=" article science-spotlight-rachel-santymire-phd" Learn About the Davee Center’s Achievements  a   p 
 p Get the latest on upcoming events, new arrivals and more!  p 
 p All Content © Lincoln Park Zoo.  p 
 p class="desktopOnly" 
                                    2001 North Clark Street • Chicago, IL 60614 • 312-742-2000                                  p 
 p class="mobileOnly" 
                                                                         a href="https:  www.google.com maps place Lincoln+Park+Zoo" class="button map" Get Map Directions  a 
                                     a href="tel:312-742-2000" class="button call" Call 312-742-2000  a 
                                  p 
