 p style="text-align: center;" The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, they remain cool by staying in the water or mud; reproduction and childbirth both occur in water. They come out at dusk to graze on grasses.  p 
 p While hippopotamuses rest near each other in the water, grazing is a solitary activity and hippos are not territorial on land. The hippopotamus is among the most dangerous animals in the world as it is highly aggressive and unpredictable. They are threatened by habitat loss and poaching for their meat and ivory canine teeth.  p 
 p    p 
 p Hippos are generally aggressive animals - old scars and fresh, deep wounds are signs of daily fights.  p 
 p Hippos move easily in water, either swimming by kicking their hind legs or walking on the bottom. They are well-adapted to their aquatic life, with small ears, eyes and nostrils set at the top of the head. These senses are so keen that even submerged in water, the hippo is alert to its surroundings. By closing its ears and nostrils, the adult can stay underwater for as long as six minutes.  p 
 p Hippos are herbivorous. They graze on grass and can graze for 4 to 5 hours each night in loop patterns.  p 
 p The hippo population is threatened by humans hunting for their fat, ivory tusks and meat, as well as being pushed out of their natural habitat.  p 
 p African Wildlife Foundation has created protected spaces for the hippopotamus - they are now mostly confined to protected areas.  p 
 p Hippopotamuses spend a large amount of time in water such as rivers, lakes, and swamps.  p 
 p We have hundreds of animals in our park from over 100 species, including some of the rarest and endangered.  p 
 p Not only are we one of the leading wildlife conservations in Indonesia, we are devoted to caring for the animals in our own safari. We ensure the highest standards of wellbeing is given to all our animals.  p 
 p Browse below to see the animals that we have given a loving home to.  p 
 p The world's largest land mammals gather in groups and are led by females! It requires them to drink 150 litres of water per day to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live [...]  p 
 p The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek: which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African [...]  p 
 p The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, [...]  p 
 p Tigers are as majestic as they appear. The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of [...]  p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali – Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show   Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Theme Park  p 
 p  strong Bali Safari &amp; Marine Park  strong   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Green Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com "  strong Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" Copyright © 2019. br All rights reserved.  p 
