 p This site uses cookies to enhance your experience. By using our website you consent to our use of cookies.     a href="  www.rzss.org.uk cookie-policy" target="_blank" Find out more  a     a href="#" title="OK" class="accept" I Agree  a   p 
 p Book tickets  span The fastest way to visit  span   p 
 p Day planner  span Make the most of your visit  span   p 
 p class="sub-text" 
Esther Conway from WildCats Conservation Alliance will explain the threats that Sumatran tigers face and how zoos are working together to protect the largest wild population in the Kerinci Seblat National Park, Sumatra.
  p 
 p class="title arrow-wht" An evening with Wildcats Conservation Alliance  p 
 p Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences?  p 
 p How to book  span All the information you need to help you start planning your educational trip.  span   p 
 p Sponsorship Opportunities  span No two sponsorship packages are the same so we work with our sponsors to create a partnership that best suits their business needs.  span   p 
 p Corporate Support  span Help us make a difference   span   p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo currently has two pygmy hippos: an adult male, called Otto and  an adult female called Gloria.  p 
 p  strong Location in the Zoo  strong   p 
 p Our pygmy hippos can be found in the hippo enclosure near the Mansion House  p 
 p  strong Breeding Programme Category:  strong   p 
 p Our pygmy hippos are part of the European Endangered Species programme.  p 
 p  strong Endangered  strong   p 
 p class="meta" For more info on classifications visit  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org" www.iucnredist.org  a   p 
 p class="sub-fact" 
Rainforests
  p 
 p Pygmy hippos ( em Hexaprotodon liberiensis  em ) are native to West Africa, with the largest population in Liberia. They live in dense forests near rivers and streams. They are good swimmers and have muscular valves that close their ears and nostrils when submerged.  br  br  As the name suggests, the pygmy hippo is far smaller than the common hippopotamus ( em Hippopotamus amphibiou  em s), and are either solitary or live in small family units. They have large and extremely sharp teeth, which they use for protection. Hippopotami have extremely high rates of water loss (three to five times the rate in man) which is due to their unique skin structure; this explains why they must spend the day in water.  br  br  Pygmy hippos are herbivores. They uproot swamp plants which they bite with their lips and crush hard fruit with their teeth and strip leaves from shrubs and trees. They also eat leaves and grasses. After a gestation period of around 6 months, the female hippo will give birth to a single calf. For the first few weeks, the calf is hidden in bushes as it cannot walk very far. Pygmy hippo calves do not instinctively know how to swim – their mother teaches them how to do this. Mothers defend their calf aggressively and they stay together for at least two years.  br  br  Pygmy hippos are facing very serious threats in the wild. Populations are declining rapidly due to habitat destruction caused by logging, farming and human settlement. Pressures from wars in the hippos’ native range are another dire threat. Sadly, pygmy hippos are also increasingly being threatened by bushmeat hunters.  p 
 p Enjoy all the benefits of an RZSS membership and help support our conservation work.   p 
 p Visit us. Love us. Adopt us.   p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.  p 
 p Registered charity number: SC004064  p 
