 p Get ready to meet one of nature’s most powerful animals with our ten facts about the  strong hippopotamus  strong …  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong 1)  strong  Hippos are large  strong semi-aquatic mammals  strong , with a large barrel-shaped body, short legs, a short tail and an enormous head! They have greyish to muddy-brown skin, which fades to a pale pink colour underneath.  p 
 p  strong 2)  strong  They are considered the second largest land animal on Earth (first place goes to the elephant!). Males measure around  strong 3.5m long  strong  and  strong 1.5m tall  strong , and can weigh up  strong 3,200kg  strong . That’s as much as  em three  em  small cars!  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong 3)  strong  To stay cool in the blistering African heat, hippos spend most of their day in rivers and lakes. Their eyes, nose and ears are located on the top of their head, which means they can see and breathe whilst submerged in the water. What’s more, these super-cool creatures sweat an oily red liquid which helps protect their skin from drying out – and acts as a sunblock, too! Cool, huh?  p 
 p  strong 4)  strong  These magnificent mammals were once found throughout all sub-saharan Africa. Sadly, populations have declined due to habitat loss and hunting. Today, they are largely confined to protected areas in East African countries.  p 
 p  strong 5)  strong  Hippos are most active at night, when they forage for food. They are  strong herbivores  strong , and eat mostly grass – and boy do they eat grass! In just one night, they can guzzle down up to  strong 35kg   strong of their favourite grub!  p 
 p  strong 6)  strong  Despite their enormous size, hippos are great swimmers and can hold their  strong breath for up to five minutes underwater.  strong  When completely submerged, their ears and nostrils fold shut to keep water out.  p 
 p  strong 7)  strong  Hippos usually live in groups (or “herds”) of around ten to 20 individuals, led by one large dominant male. The other members are females, their young and a few young non-breeding males.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong 8)  strong  Dominant males are very protective over their group. To warn off rival males, they open their huge mouths and display their long, curved canines! They also make loud grunts and aggressive splashes in the water.  p 
 p  strong 9)  strong  Female hippos, called cows, give birth every two years, usually to a single calf. Soon after birth, the mother and her baby join up with other cows and calves for protection against predators, such as crocodiles, lions and hyenas.  p 
 p  strong 10)  strong  In the wild hippos live for around strong  40 years  strong . In captivity, they tend to live longer and may reach up to  strong 50 years old  strong .  p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p awsome. thanks  p 
 p Wow! Hippos were my favourite animal but now I like Pangolins!  p 
 p hippos are amazing creatures  p 
 p WOW that is cool  p 
 p wow that rocks  p 
 p wow! this is cool  p 
 p wow! this is cool  p 
 p awesome  p 
 p LOL  p 
 p Awesome bawesome, wow, wow, wow!  p 
 p Wow! Great info here  p 
 p COOL REALLY COOL  p 
 p love the information but  put a really more colurlove hippopostmet so I `will chat to you later  p 
 p These facts are so interesting. Arent baby hippos just so cute!!!  p 
 p This is awsome!  p 
 p I love that! So interesting!
By the way, there is a fact on there twice!
Thanks xx  p 
 p Love it!  p 
 p Those facts were interesting, btw I love hippos theyre so cute!  p 
 p your web stinks  p 
 p I hate you  p 
 p I love hippos!  p 
 p lol  p 
 p i love it  p 
 p they is cute   p 
 p I LOVE HIPPOS :)  p 
 p Hippos are amazing, they have interesting history that i love to read, i love animals, especially hippos!  p 
 p awesome ten facts  p 
 p hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh6h546
51157+  p 
 p lovley facts about hippos  p 
 p i am love the hippos  p 
 p Hippos are so cute  p 
 p Cool  p 
 p so cute  p 
 p C
O
O
L  p 
 p awsome  p 
 p Hippos behavior is really interesting! #AnimalsAreCool!!!  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
