 p A common hippopotamus. ©Getty Images  p 
 p There are two species, or kinds, of hippopotamus: the common or river hippopotamus and the pygmy hippopotamus. Both are herbivores.  p 
 p A young hippopotamus is called a calf. Its father is a bull and its mother is a cow.  p 
 p Common hippos live in groups, and a group is called a bloat of hippos.                           p 
 p Pygmy hippos are solitary, which means they live alone. Sometimes they are in pairs.  p 
 p Pygmy hippo habitat is forest near swampy areas. ©Getty Images  p 
 p The habitat of the common hippopotamus is grassland areas where there is permanent still water, not too deep and without many rocks at the bottom of the pool.  p 
 p The habitat of the pygmy hippopotamus is in forests in western Africa, near swampy areas.  p 
 p The pygmy hippopotamus is much smaller than the common hippo, standing at less than 1 metre high at the shoulder and weighing about 250kg.  Its neck is longer, its head is rounder and narrower, and its eyes are not at the top of its head. They spend less time in the water than the common hippopotamus, but have the same adaptations to being in water.  p 
 p A hippo walking on the river bed, with ears flattened and nostrils shut. ©Getty Images  p 
 p The common hippopotamus weighs about 3 tonnes (male) and 1.5 tonnes (female).  It is the third largest land animal (after the elephant and rhinoceros). Its feet have four webbed toes. Hippos have very thick skin and almost no hair. The hippopotamus does not sweat, so they need water or mud in order to keep cool. When out of water for a while, its skin sometimes oozes a pinkish, oily liquid. Some people think this is blood but it is not. This liquid prevents the skin from drying out and acts as a sunscreen.   Under the skin a hippo has a thick layer of fat, which helps keep it warm in the water.  p 
 p ©Getty Images  p 
 p Eyes, ears and nostrils are on the top part of the head so that when floating in the water they can see, hear and breathe easily. Hippos have short, flattened tails. The tail acts like a bat to spread the animal's poo to mark its territory.  p 
 p Underwater, hippos run or walk along the bottom, with their ears pressed down flat and their nostrils clamped shut by tiny muscles. Their heart rate slows down so they can stay underwater longer. They generally come up for air every 6 or 7 minutes, but they can stay under for about 30 minutes.    p 
 p Common hippo's habitat is river or pools in grasslands ©Getty Images  p 
 p Hippopotamus live both on land and in the water, which means they are amphibious. The common hippopotamus comes out of water at night to feed on grass, often walking up steep banks and always following the same paths. They generally return to the water at sunrise to spend the morning dozing. They may lie on the banks to sunbake if it is not too hot or windy. On land they can run at about 30 kilometres an hour if they have to, but only for a short distance.  p 
 p A show of aggression. © Getty Images  p 
 p Common hippopotamus groups vary in size. In a large pool, a group could be as large as 60.   Males are very territorial. Hippopotamus are very aggressive animals and easily enraged. They 'yawn' more and more as they get angrier, showing their big teeth as part of their threat display.  p 
 p Pygmy hippos live alone or in pairs.  They also feed at night. They eat grass, leaves and fruit. Not a great deal is known about these rare animals.   p 
 p Common hippo and calf. ©Getty Images  p 
 p A female common hippopotamus gives birth to a single calf, very rarely twins, about 8 months after mating with a male. Hippopotamus calves are small, about 25kg, born on land or in shallow water. Hippos are mammals, so the young drink milk, and hippo calves generally suckle milk from their mothers while underwater. The calves of the herd play together. In the water, young ones are often seen resting their heads, or standing, on an adult's back, usually their mother's, because the effort to keep afloat tires them too much. Until a calf is strong enough to walk far, the mother leaves it with other females to babysit when she goes to feed.  p 
 p Two male hippos fighting. Hippos can inflict serious damage in a fight. Getty Images  p 
 p    p 
 p Welcome to www.kidcyber.com.au, a website established in 1999 for primary students and teachers.  p 
 p  strong We provide:  strong   p 
 p Easy to understand text for student research, including material for primary school students K-6 br Easy to navigate format br Units of work and lesson plans for teachers on a variety of topics in key learning areas br kidcyberQuests: student webquest assignments with links to information sites for research, project ideas, evaluation br 'Ask a kidcyber Researcher' feature where students can request specific information about a topic br Advice to parents about helping with school homework assignments and projects  p 
 p  strong Who are we?  strong   p 
 p The writers and publishers of kidcyber are Shirley Sydenham, a primary teacher, and Ron Thomas, a primary teacher-librarian. We are authors (together, individually and with others) of numerous books for teachers and kids, published in Australia and overseas. Recent books written together include Using the Library 1, 2 &amp; 3; Thinking Through Themes (4 titles: Air, Fire, Water, Earth); and The Perfect School Project, published by and available at Teaching Solutions.  p 
 p  strong Our Audience  strong   p 
 p Students from K to 8, their teachers and parents. br Homeschool students and their parents. br Teacher Librarians  p 
 p If you: br – need more help with this topic br – need information for a school project br – find broken links br  a target="_blank" href=" contact" contact kidcyber  a   p 
 p    p 
 p class="text-align-left"  strong © 2018 www.kidcyber.com.au   strong  br WE ARE PROUD SUPPORTERS OF br THE INDIGENOUS LITERACY FOUNDATION  em www.indigenousliteracyfoundation.org.au  em  &amp; br ROOM TO READ  em www.roomtoread.org   em   p 
 p class="text-align-left" DISCLAIMER: In the interest of a safe, educational online experience. kidcyber provides links to other web pages, selected and examined for their appropriateness, to provide more information about a particular topic. kidcyber has no control over the information at these sites or links made from them to others sites, which might be considered inappropriate by some people. kidcyber cannot be held responsible for inappropriate sites Note: all kidcyber topics are regularly checked, updated and added to, so keep checking out this website. strong    strong   p 
 p class="text-align-left" The Australian Copyright Act 1968 (the Act) allows 10% of the number of words on this website to be reproduced and or communicated by any Australian educational institution for its educational purposes provided that the educational institution (or the body that administers it) has given a Notice to Copyright Agency under part VB of the Act. For details of the CAL licence for educational institutions contact: Copyright Agency. Level 15, 233 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Telephone: +612 9394 7600 Facsimile: +612 9394 7601 E-mail: info@copyright.com.au strong    strong   p 
 p class="text-align-left" Except as permitted under the Act (for example for the services of the Crown or in reliance on one of the fair dealing exceptions i.e. a fair dealing for the purposes of research or study) no part of this website may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, communicated or transmitted in any form or by any means without prior written permission. All inquiries should be made to the copyright owner at us@kidcyber.com.au  p 
