 p ZSL London Zoo's two pygmy hippos, Thug and Nicky, have a plush pad to enjoy.  p 
 p There’s nothing pygmy hippos love more than having plenty of sleep and long soaks in warm water. Their enclosure has been equipped with solar panels to make sure their hippo pond is always a nice temperature, ensuring these lovely hippos stay nice and warm all year long.  p 
 p Thug and Nicky will be joining up with the other animals in Into Africa. Just like the giraffes, okapi, and warthogs, pygmy hippos hail from Africa. In fact, pygmy hippos are very rare animals and can only be found in West Africa.  p 
 p  img alt="A map of where pygmy hippos live in the world." title="A map of where pygmy hippos live" height="371" width="660" class="media-element file-default" data-delta="2" src=" sites default files styles wysiwyg public media 2014-03 pygmy-map.jpg?itok=I_3xSgCq"    p 
 p With an adoption pack, you can help to care for our hippos at ZSL London and Whipsnade Zoo, and support ZSL's worldwide conservation work.   p 
 p  a class="basket-button" href="https:  shop.zsl.org content adopt-hippos" Adopt the hippos  a   p 
 p  strong Thug  strong   p 
 p  strong Born:   strong Aalborg zoo 16 05 1996  p 
 p  strong Weight:   strong 316kg  p 
 p  strong Likes:   strong Having his teeth cleaned, carrots and clover  p 
 p  strong Dislikes:   strong Bananas and onions  p 
 p Contrary to his name, Thug is a gentle soul who loves nothing more than to swim and sleep. When he’s not indulging in a relaxing soak, Thug can’t resist chasing Nicky around! However, Thug’s soft side means that most of the time it’s Nicky who’s calling the shots in their hippo home.  p 
 p  strong Nicky  strong   p 
 p  strong Born:   strong Rome zoo 16 02 1995  p 
 p  strong Weight:   strong 226kg  p 
 p  strong Likes:   strong Eating willow branches and clover  p 
 p  strong Dislikes:   strong Bananas  p 
 p Nicky, also known as Nicky Noo to some, is a very cheeky and inquisitive pygmy hippo. She can’t resist keeping an eye on her keepers, which means she often tries sneaks up on them. Like Thug, Nicky loves wallowing, sleeping and swimming. When she came to the zoo Nicky was thought to be a male hippo and was called Nicoli!  p 
 p  strong How to tell them apart  strong   p 
 p Nicky is the smaller of the two, with a less hairy tail and less bulky neck. Thug, for a Pygmy Hippo, is quite big and is therefore the tallest of the pair. He is also longer and wider than his mate. Try and see if you can spot the differences when you visit!  p 
 p Want to know the key differences between Pygmy hippos and their large cousins? Here are some ways to sort between your common hippos and pygmys.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Population:  strong  Only around 3000 in a few countries in West Africa  p 
 p  strong Weight:  strong  up to 300 kg  p 
 p  strong Lifestyle:  strong  Lives alone in swamps, streams and dense forest  p 
 p  strong Feet:  strong  Well-separated toes for trudging through mud  p 
 p  strong Nose:  strong  Less prominent nostrils as spends more time on land  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Population:  strong  Around 130,000 across Africa  p 
 p  strong Weight:  strong  Up to 3000 kg  p 
 p  strong Lifestyle:  strong  Lives in groups of 10-30 in rivers and lakes  p 
 p  strong Feet:  strong  Webbed toes for wallowing in water  p 
 p  strong Nose:  strong  Nostrils on top to stick out of river for easy breathing  p 
 p It is estimated that there could be less that 2000 pygmy hippos left in the wild, with a Nigerian subspecies already believed to be extinct. In the wild, pygmy hippos come under threat from hunting and habitat loss. Many populations of hippos have become fragmented due to logging, mining, farming and other human activity. As pygmy hippos are forced to engage with local communities, they come under more and more danger from extinction.  p 
 p In 2007 ZSL’s  a href="http:  www.edgeofexistence.org index.php" EDGE of Existence Programme  a  recognised pygmy hippos as a priority for conservation. Since then, ZSL has been working in Liberia and Sierra Leone, trying to work towards protecting what remains of the wild pygmy hippo population.  p 
 p In the field, ZSL carries out vital research into pygmy hippo ecology, distribution and behaviour. We also work with local communities and government wildlife authorities to protect them. Alongside this, ZSL London Zoo and Whipsnade Zoo are part of a captive breeding program and in 2010 produced the IUCN SSC Regional Pygmy Hippo Conservation Strategy.  p 
 p To learn more about ZSL’s conservation work, you can visit  a href=" conservation regions africa pygmy-hippo-conservation" our project page  a . You can also visit the  a href="http:  www.edgeofexistence.org mammals species_info.php?id=21" EDGE website and learn  a  just what makes the pygmy hippo such an important animal to preserve. If you feel inspired by the work that you see, don’t forget that you can  a href=" support-us donate-to-zsl" donate to ZSL  a  and a href=" search-page-redirect zsl-challenge-events"  raise funds  a  for future and current  a href=" conservation collaboration" conservation projects  a .  p 
 p Spring has arrived and it’s kick-starting one of the...  p 
 p The perfect Easter holiday activity for little animal...  p 
 p Special Children's Day is a unique annual event...  p 
 p Gir Lion Lodge is an exciting opportunity to stay...  p 
 p An animal adoption makes a unique gift and helps our...  p 
 p Do you know any budding zoo keepers? This is the must-do...  p 
 p  span style="color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Arial, Helvetica, 'Liberation Sans', FreeSans, sans-serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 20px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);" Subscribe to email updates from ZSL and expect to hear about:  span   p 
 p  span style="color: rgb(0, 0, 0); font-family: Arial, Helvetica, 'Liberation Sans', FreeSans, sans-serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 20px; background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);"  a class="link-small" href=" get-the-zsl-email-newsletter" SUBSCRIBE TO UPDATES TODAY  a   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;margin:0;font-size:12px;" The Zoological Society of London is incorporated by Royal Charter - Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 208728. br Principal Office England - Company Number RC000749 - Registered address Regent's Park, London, England NW1 4RY  p 
