 p  span  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com " title="Home page" Home  a   span  &gt;  span 11 tiger idioms and phrases  span   p 
 p Native to the forests of Asia, this feline has snuck its way into several common – and a few less common – terms and phrases over the years. Besides referring to the cat, the word  em tiger  em  is also used to describe someone ‘fierce, determined, or ambitious’. Thanks to the cat’s distinctive markings, the word is often used in the common name of other animals or insects, such as the tiger swallowtail. Let’s have a look at some notable tiger idioms and phrases.  p 
 p To  em have a tiger by the tail  em  refers to the act of having ‘embarked on a course of action that proves unexpectedly difficult but that cannot easily or safely be abandoned’. Similar to this phrase is the Chinese proverb ‘He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount’, which gave rise to the phrase  em ride the tiger  em .  p 
 p Although this phrase may have started life as a 1965 advertising campaign for Esso Petroleum Company (the company’s mascot, now known as Exxon Mobil, is a tiger), the phrase has come to mean ‘to invest one with energy or “go”’.  p 
 p A  em paper tiger  em  refers to a person or thing that appears threatening but is ineffectual.  p 
 p A North American English term for an illegal bar, the term  em blind tiger   em first appeared in the mid-19 sup th  sup  century, probably because illegal bars, in order to avoid  a href="http:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com 2013 01 speakeasy " target="_blank" prohibition laws  a , were disguised as exhibition locales for natural curiosities.  p 
 p A  em tiger economy  em  (also known as a  em tiger  em ) refers to a dynamic economy in a small country, especially in East Asia, such as Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore. The Irish economy was known as the ‘Celtic Tiger’ during a period of rapid growth in the late 1990s.  p 
 p A  em tiger mother  em  refers to a ‘strict or demanding mother who pushes her children to high levels of achievement’, in particular using childrearing methods regarded as typical of China and other areas of East Asia. The term was coined by Amy Chua in her 2011 book  em Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother  em .  p 
 p One of the best-selling singles of all-time, the hard rock song ‘ a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=btPJPFnesV4" target="_blank" Eye of the Tiger  a ’ by the American band Survivor has become a go-to anthem during sporting events. In popular culture, the  em eye of the tiger  em  has come to symbolize a feeling of power or confidence.  p 
 p A variation on the more common  em a leopard cannot change his spots  em , this idiom means ‘people can’t change their basic nature’.  p 
 p This phrase has its origins in a short story by American writer Frank R. Stockton, ‘ a href="http:  www.eastoftheweb.com short-stories UBooks LadyTige.shtml" target="_blank" The Lady, or the Tiger?  a ’, first published in 1882. The premise of the story involves an impossible decision (between, you probably guessed, a lady and a tiger), and the phrase has come by extension to refer to a problem that is not solvable.  p 
 p In New Zealand and Australian English, the term  em tiger country  em  refers to ‘remote and inaccessible parts of a country’, i.e. ‘The construction of that road through some very difficult tiger country is now under way’.  p 
 p Another alcohol-related tiger idiom,  em Tiger’s milk  em  is a slang term for gin. It’s also the name of a Slovenian dessert wine made from overripe grapes.  p 
 p July 29   2015  p 
 p  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag animal-idioms " rel="tag" animal idioms  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag animals " rel="tag" animals  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag economy " rel="tag" economy  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag gin " rel="tag" gin  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag leopard " rel="tag" leopard  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag paper-tiger " rel="tag" paper tiger  a ,  a href="https:  blog.oxforddictionaries.com tag tiger " rel="tag" tiger  a   p 
 p As their breed names often attest, dogs are a truly international ...  p 
 p Monkeys have it tough in the English language. Generally speaking, ...  p 
 p Share some new phrases from the dictionary  p 
 p Nice list!  p 
 p © 2019 Oxford University Press  p 
