 p Ban EU Tiger Trade   p 
 p We need  strong 200,000  strong  signatures.  p 
 p Already  strong 178,301  strong  of  strong 200,000  strong  signed the petition, but we need many more to convince the European Commission. 
  p 
 p class="small" style="color:#c6170a"  strong Don't be a lone wolf.  strong  We would love to stay in touch and show what how you can contribute to a better world for animals - but we will only do this with your permission. Join our animal friendly community!  strong You can update your choices any time.  strong   p 
 p By ticking the box above you are giving your consent to receive emails from FOUR PAWS about our vital work with animals around the world. We will never sell, rent or share your details and you can unsubscribe at any time.  p 
 p  strong The tiger is an endangered species. The world has already lost over 90 percent of its tigers and there are only an estimated 3,900 tigers left in the wild.  strong   p 
 p This dramatic decline is a result of a relentless demand for tigers traded for their parts but also to be displayed commercially. With so few tigers left, there simply should be no commercial trade in these animals or their products – neither with wild tigers nor with captive-bred tigers! Legal trade facilitates illegal trade and causes a real threat to the wild tiger population.   p 
 p Shockingly, tigers born in Europe in captivity can still be traded for commercial purposes like circuses or for private keeping and for photo opportunities. In some European countries, you can even rent a tiger for a private party!   p 
 p There is no clear overview of tiger numbers and trade within Europe; no one knows how many tigers are currently kept in Europe, where they are moved during their lifetime or how they are used for entertainment purposes, where they die and finally whether these animals are in worst cases being turned into tiger bone wine or traditional medicines.   p 
 p  strong Our investigators have discovered that tiger traders operating in Europe are willing and able to sell and facilitate the transfer of tigers to Asian countries where demand for their parts for traditional medicine is causing mass cruelty and a decline of the species. We can no longer allow this to happen!!   strong   p 
 p Call on the European Commission to ban the commercial trade in tigers.     p 
 p Sign our petition now!    p 
 p  a href="https:  www.four-paws.org about-us imprint" target="_blank" Imprint  a   a href="https:  www.four-paws.org about-us data-privacy" target="_blank" Data privacy statement  a   p 
 p This website is using cookies to improve user experience. Additionally cookies from third party servers could be used.  p 
 p class="buttons"  button class="small button" id="accept-cookies" Yes, I understand!  button   p 
