 p Thirteen countries which are home to the world's dwindling population of wild tigers Friday agreed to establish an intelligence-sharing network to fight traffickers, concluding an anti-poaching conference in Kathmandu.
                                  p 
 p Around 100 experts, government and  a href="https:  phys.org tags law+enforcement+officials " rel="tag" class="textTag" law enforcement officials  a  attended the five-day summit, co-hosted by Nepal and conservation group WWF to hammer out a regional plan to fight poaching in Asia.  p 
 p "We cannot allow wildlife crime to continue to wrap its tentacles deeper into the region," said Tikaram Adhikari, director general of Nepal's department of national parks and  a href="https:  phys.org tags wildlife+conservation " rel="tag" class="textTag" wildlife conservation  a .  p 
 p "Our individual efforts may win us a few battles, but we can only win the war only if Asia presents a united front to stop the poaching, end the trafficking and wipe out demand," Adhikari said in a press statement.  p 
 p Nepal has twice been recognised for going a full year with no poaching incidents involving tigers, while the population of the endangered cats rose almost two thirds between 2009 and 2013.   p 
 p David Lawson of WWF's Tigers Alive Initiative said the network of national liaison officers would "help countries communicate better with each other, build trust and deepen cooperation which is essential to win the fight against poachers".  p 
 p "Asian governments need to recognise that we are in the midst of a poaching crisis and that this theft of natural resources must be stopped," Lawson told AFP.  p 
 p Decades of trafficking and habitat destruction have slashed the global  a href="https:  phys.org tags tiger+population " rel="tag" class="textTag" tiger population  a  from 100,000 a century ago to approximately 3,000, according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature.  p 
 p Poachers hunt the animal for its bones, which used to be an ingredient of traditional Chinese medicine, its pelt, which can fetch up to $16,000 on the black market, and its penis, believed to increase male sexual performance.  p 
 p Countries with tiger populations—Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Russia, Thailand and Vietnam—in 2010 launched a plan to double their numbers by 2022.
                                                                  p 
 p class="news-relevant" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org WebPage" 
                                         a href="#" id="inl-rel-href"  img class="toolsicon ic-rel" src="https:  cf3e497594.site.internapcdn.net tmpl v5 img 1x1.gif" width="14" height="16" alt=""   a 
                                         b Explore further:  b  
                                         a itemprop="relatedLink" href="https:  phys.org news 2015-02-china-demand-threatens-tiger.html" China demand threatens tiger protection  a 
                                      p 
 p 
                                            © 2015 AFP
                                         br   p 
 p Soaring demand for tiger parts in China has emptied Asia's forests, frustrating efforts to protect the big cats, wildlife experts said as an anti-poaching conference opened in Kathmandu Monday.  p 
 p Nepal's success in turning tiger-fearing villagers into their protectors has seen none of the endangered cats killed for almost three years, offering key lessons for an anti-poaching summit opening in Kathmandu on Monday.  p 
 p Thirteen countries with wild tiger populations agreed Tuesday to take part in a global count to establish how many of the critically endangered animals are left and improve policies to protect them.  p 
 p Efforts to save the tiger are being undermined by a lack of information about how many of the endangered cats live in the wild, the conservation group WWF said on Tuesday.  p 
 p Some 140 tiger experts and government officials from 20 countries met in the Bangladeshi capital Dhaka on Sunday to review progress towards an ambitious goal of doubling their number in the wild by 2022.  p 
 p Interpol on Wednesday launched a new campaign to coordinate the global fight against tiger poaching, warning that failure to protect the endangered cats would have economic and social repercussions.  p 
 p Blue-blooded and armored with 10 spindly legs, horseshoe crabs have perhaps always seemed a bit out of place.  p 
 p As the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the globe, permafrost, land ice and sea ice are disappearing at unprecedented rates. And these changes not only affect the infrastructure, economies and cultures of the Arctic, ...  p 
 p Researchers at Delft University of Technology have created a quantum circuit to listen to the weakest radio signal allowed by quantum mechanics. This new quantum circuit opens the door to possible future applications in areas ...  p 
 p Located in the constellation of Hercules, about 230 million light-years away, NGC 6052 is a pair of colliding galaxies. They were first discovered in 1784 by William Herschel and were originally classified as a single irregular ...  p 
 p SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, completing a NASA demonstration mission that paves the way for the resumption of manned space flights from the US.  p 
 p Stars over eight times more massive than the sun end their lives in supernovae explosions. The composition of the star influences what happens during the explosion.  p 
 p Some species of Euglenids, a diversified family of aquatic unicellular organisms, can perform large-amplitude, elegantly coordinated body deformations. Although this behavior has been known for centuries, its function is ...  p 
 p 
                        Please  a href="https:  sciencex.com profile login " sign in  a  to add a comment.
                        Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
                         a href="https:  sciencex.com help account " Read more  a 
                  p 
 p  input type="email" required="" placeholder="email" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="email" name="email" 
                                  p 
 p  input type="password" required="" placeholder="password" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="passwd" name="passwd" 
                                 input type="hidden" value="login" name="status" 
    
                                  p 
 p 
                                         span class="float-right" id="cmPrThr"   span 
                                         input type="submit" value="Sign in" name="loginsubmit" id="login-submit" class="com-button" 
                                  p 
 p class="centered" Enter your Science X account credentials  p 
 p Connect  p 
 p class="copyright" © Phys.org 2003 - 2019,  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  sciencex.com " Science X network  a   p 
