 p id="banner-title-text" 
        European  Commission br 
         span id="banner-site-name" Environment  span 
        p 
 p class="off-screen" Accessibility tools  p 
 p class="off-screen" Service tools  p 
 p class="off-screen" Language selector  p 
 p class="off-screen" Navigation path  p 
 p class="off-screen" High level navigation  p 
 p class="off-screen" Page navigation  p 
 p class="off-screen" Additional tools  p 
 p In a number of tourist locations live animals  and plants or exotic souvenirs made from their body parts may be offered for  sale. If you consider purchasing wildlife souvenirs you should be aware that a  number of animal and plant species are subject to international regulations and  may require permits. Just because such items are openly displayed for sale does  not mean it is legal to buy and bring them home; they may be seized by Customs upon  arrival and you could be risking a hefty fine. This Wildlife Souvenir Guide contains  examples of the types of wildlife souvenirs you may encounter and provides you  with information about the regulations that may apply. However, you should  always check with the relevant authorities on whether it is legal to bring a  certain wildlife product back with you and whether you will require a permit.   p 
 p In all Amazon countries the sale  of wild animals (except fish), including their skins, feathers or other parts  (claws, skulls, etc.) is illegal even though some of these specimens can be found  in local markets and curio shops. In Peru, however, butterflies may be sold. Some  species are CITES-listed and also endangered (including jaguar, ocelots,  macaws, toucans, etc.), so the best option is not to buy any handicrafts that  include parts of wild land animals in the Amazon region, as they may be  protected and could be seized by Customs; you may also be fined.   p 
 p You may be tempted to buy some of the  region’s famous musical instruments: rain sticks made from cacti, which can,  for example, be found in Peru, Chile and Bolivia. Although trade in all cacti  species is regulated by CITES and the EU Wildlife Trade Regulations, you can  import up to three rain sticks per person into the EU without any additional  documents, as “personal effects”. You may require export and import permits for  Vicuña garments and in addition, your item should bear the logotype  corresponding to the country of origin and the trademark “VICUÑA – [COUNTRY OF  ORIGIN]”. The Andean region is also home to many rare timber species so beware  of this when you buy carved wooden ornaments. Tagua, or vegetable ivory, can be  an alternative souvenir, as it does not require documents and originates in  most instances from sustainable sources.  p 
 p The vast majority of Australia’s wildlife is  protected and many items can only be exported with a permit issued by the  Australian Department of Environment and Heritage. This includes all live  native animals (including birds, reptiles and insects), and wildlife items such  as marine shells (e.g. giant clams) and stony corals. Australian authorities  impose strict penalties on violators which can include prison sentences.  Souvenirs and gifts made from kangaroos can be exported provided that you do  not intend to sell, trade, exchange or use them in any other form for  commercial purposes.  p 
 p You will  require an export permit for all souvenirs made from stony coral. In some  countries, you may find jewellery made of sea turtle shells or black coral for  sale. International trade in these species is regulated and in some cases, not  allowed - you may risk having these souvenirs seized upon arrival in the EU.  Sharks’ teeth, hardwood carvings and ornamental ants may be legal to purchase  and to bring home, however for some species you may need permits (e.g. for all  cacti and orchids, and for Great White Shark teeth). Note that some orchids
                are  listed in Annex A of the EU Wildlife Trade Regulations and therefore can not be  traded except under exceptional circumstances.  p 
 p Be aware  that you will require permits for most products made from snake and lizard skin  such as briefcases, handbags and shoes. Traditional Asian medicines can contain  parts of wild animal and plant species (e.g. bear, musk, tigers or certain  plants) and their sale may either be forbidden, or you may require a permit  before you can bring them home. Also, remember that there are very strict  controls on taking ivory carvings out of China and into the EU and also that  you will need permits for products made of hippo ivory.  p 
 p India has very strict wildlife protection legislation and the trade and  use of native species is strictly regulated. Shahtoosh, the “King of Wools”,  comes from the highly endangered Tibetan Antelope “Chiru”. Because of their  rarity, shahtoosh shawls can be extremely expensive. Unfortunately, not only  the monetary cost of this luxury is high: the Tibetan Antelope has been hunted  to the brink of extinction for its wool. You should also be aware that other  products such as spotted cat skins, elephant ivory products, reptile leather  products, stony corals and turtle shells, are protected in India and banned  from export.  p 
 p The thousands of islands in Indonesia’s large archipelago are home to some  of the world’s greatest biodiversity. You may be bewildered by the array of  wildlife products offered for sale, but be aware that many of these items are  subject to national and international restrictions. You will not be allowed to  bring back products made from bear claws, ivory, Tiger or marine turtle shells  or curios such as stuffed birds-of-paradise, as international trade in these  species is banned. Remember that you may need special permits if you want to  take home goods made from reptile or amphibian skin, such as handbags or shoes,  and that permits are also required for stony corals and orchids. Note that some  orchids are listed in Annex A of the EU Wildlife Trade Regulations, and can  therefore can not be traded except under exceptional circumstances.  p 
 p Kenya prohibits the collection of corals and the export of products  made from elephants (ivory), rhinos (horn) and marine turtles (shells,  jewellery and combs). In addition, national law also prohibits trade in reptile  leather products such as handbags, belts, shoes, watchstraps and briefcases and  you will not be allowed to export these products. Although trade is allowed for  some wildlife products, you should always check whether a permit is required,  especially for the export of plants, insects and shells.   p 
 p Some butterfly and tarantula species are  protected and may require permits to be imported. Also, remember that souvenirs  such as stony corals and products made of reptile skin will require permits  before you can bring them home, and trade in items from the feathers of  hornbills is banned.    p 
 p You may find marine shells such as Giant Clams,  which actually originate from the South Pacific, as well as seahorses offered  for sale in seaside resorts along the Mediterranean. All seahorses require  permits for trade to the EU, while Giant Clams are limited to three per person.  In some countries, coats made from spotted cat furs may also be offered, as  well as jewellery made from marine turtle shell, ivory and other wildlife  products and tourists interested in these should remember that international  trade in most of these wildlife products is prohibited.    p 
 p Mexico strictly regulates the export of its  native animal and plant species, such as parrots, reptiles, cacti, palms,  cycads and orchids, some of which are rare and endangered in the wild. If you  consider buying a pair of cowboy boots, make sure they are not made from the  leather of endangered species and beware that you may need permits for bringing  reptile leather products home. Also remember that international trade in marine  turtle products (e.g. combs, sunglasses, jewellery, etc.) is banned.   p 
 p Tourists visiting the colourful markets of  North Africa may see a range of wildlife products and sometimes live animals  and plants offered for sale. For example, musical instruments or fire bellows  made of Spur-thighed Tortoises and products made of reptile leather. Remember that several of these souvenirs, as  well as live tortoises, chameleons or lizards, will require a permit and some  may even be illegal to bring home.   p 
 p Sea shells may look pretty, but remember  they may be protected. Note you will need permits for all stony corals and  souvenirs made from reptile skins. Trade in orchids is also restricted in the  Philippines.  p 
 p Products made from marine turtles, such as  tortoiseshell jewellery, may be sold as souvenirs, but tourists should be aware  that even if labels or advertisements indicate that the turtles were captive-bred,  the export of these products is strictly regulated and therefore the items may  be confiscated by Customs upon arrival in the EU.   p 
 p In the Russian live animal markets, especially in Moscow and St.  Petersburg, you may find native and exotic species, such as tortoises, snakes,  lizards, geckos and parrots, but remember that international trade of these  specimens is regulated. Note you are allowed to bring back (for personal  consumption) a maximum of 125 grams of caviar per person without any documentation.  For larger quantities, you must obtain an export permit and an import permit. Only  buy caviar in containers carrying a CITES label.  p 
 p Exports of animal or plant species indigenous to South Africa,  including a vast range of succulent plants, animal skins and curios, require  an export permit. In addition, agricultural quarantine restrictions may be  imposed on some plants and bird species. Feel free to purchase the splendid  array of cut flowers and other curios available at most airports.  p 
 p Permits are required for the collection, harvest, trade and export of  all wildlife, fisheries and forestry products in Tanzania. The export of  products made from many threatened species is prohibited, such as rhino,  cheetah, cycads and most elephant and leopard products. Exceptions include a  limited number of legally hunted leopard and elephant trophies that may be  exported. You will need a permit for hippopotamus and warthog tusks, reptile  skins such as python and crocodile, zebra and antelope skins, corals, Giant  Clams and all other shells, dead or alive, plants including aloes and some  hardwoods, and all live animals including insects.   p 
 p Many orchids grow abundantly in Thailand’s tropical forests. Some  orchid species are endangered and international trade in all orchids is  regulated. You will need a permit to bring home cut orchid flowers or orchid  seedlings in a flask and live orchid plants grown in nurseries. Other wildlife goods  offered for sale may include products made of marine turtles, ivory carvings  and crocodile skin, many of which are either illegal or require a permit for international  trade.   p 
 p The UK Overseas Territories and  Crown Dependencies (Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Montserrat, St Helena and Dependencies, Pitcairn and British  Indian Ocean Territory and the Crown Dependencies of Guernsey, Jersey and the  Isle of Man) are not regarded as part of the EU for CITES purposes. This means  that permits are required for trade in CITES-listed species between them and  all countries that are Parties to CITES (including the UK).  p 
 p For more information about taking  wildlife products home from one of the Crown Dependencies or Overseas  Territories, contact the  a href="pdf list_authorities.pdf" target="_blank" relevant authorities  a  ( a href=".. pdfinfo.htm" pdf  a  429KB).  p 
 p Products made from Black Bear, Brown Bear (including subspecies), Polar  Bear, whale, and Sea Otter require permits for international trade. In  addition, handicrafts made from marine mammals (including Polar Bear, whale,  Sea Otter, Walrus and fur seals) may only be legally purchased and exported if  they are authentic handicrafts made by Native American artisans. Feathered  handicrafts must not contain migratory bird feathers. Permits are also needed  to bring coral products and leather goods made from American Alligator, caiman,  and crocodile back to the EU.  br   p 
