 p  a href=".. index.html" Home  a  &gt;&gt;  a href=".. cites index.html" CITES  a  &gt;&gt;  a href=".. cites species-information.html" Species Information  a  &gt;&gt;  a href="index.html" Animals  a  &gt;&gt;  a href="tigers.html" Tigers  a   p 
 p    p 
 p There are  generally considered to be eight subspecies of  strong tiger  strong  ( em Panthera tigris  em ), three of which are now extinct.  The remaining subspecies include the Bengal,  Indo-Chinese, South China, Amur, and Sumatran tigers.  Pressures from illegal killing, a shrinking food supply, and habitat loss led to the extinction of the Bali, Javan, and  Caspian subspecies, and continue to threaten the survival of the remaining  subspecies.  p 
 p Tigers live in a variety of habitats from the  temperate forests of the Russian  Far East, to the mangrove swamps of the Sunderbans of Bangladesh and western  India, to the tropical  forests, grasslands, and marshes of India and  Indonesia.  Historically, they were also  found near the Caspian Sea in Turkey and Iran, and on the islands of Bali and  Java in Indonesia.  br   p 
 p class="caption" Sumatran tiger at Smithsonian National Zoo br 
    Credit: USFWS  p 
 p  By some  estimates, a century ago 50,000 to 80,000 tigers roamed India alone.  Today, the tiger is classified as Endangered  in the   a href="https:  www.fws.gov scripts exit.cfm?link=http:  www.iucnredlist.org " target="_blank" Red List of Threatened Species  a  published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and it is estimated that there are only 3,500 tigers remaining in the wild worldwide.  p 
 p Until it was  banned, trophy hunting and a market for tiger rugs and coats threatened the  tiger’s survival.  Today, habitat  destruction, human population growth, and a demand for tiger parts threaten the  tiger’s survival.  In some cultures,  tiger parts are thought to cure diseases such as rheumatism, convulsions,  typhoid fever, and dysentery.  Tiger bone  used in these traditional medicines sells for as much as $75 to $115 per  pound.    p 
 p In the Russian  Far East, logging threatens the Amur tiger’s already shrinking habitat.  Poaching has also increased since the international borders between Russia and  its neighbors opened.     p 
 p  The tiger is  protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of  Wild Fauna and Flora ( a href=".. cites index.html" CITES  a ), an agreement among 175 nations to ensure that  international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten  their survival.  The  a href="https:  www.fws.gov " U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service  a  (Service) is the federal agency responsible for the U.S. Government’s  implementation of CITES.   p 
 p      In addition,  all tiger species are listed as Endangered species under the  a href=".. laws-treaties-agreements us-conservation-laws endangered-species-act.html" U.S. Endangered  Species Act  a  (ESA), prohibiting the import of tiger parts and products into the  United States except under certain conditions.   p 
 p The Service, through the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act, supports conservation efforts of tigers in its range countries. This legislation, passed in 1994, established the  a href=".. wildlife-without-borders rhino-and-tiger-conservation-fund.html" Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Fund  a , which provides funding and technical  assistance to  support resource management, research, and education.  p 
 p Even in areas  where the tiger is now extinct, it lives on in myths, legends, and rituals.  Tigers may never be as numerous as they were  a century ago, but perhaps we can learn to respect and protect them before it is  too late.  p 
 p    p 
