 p class="post-meta"  by  span class="author vcard"  a href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com author anglo" title="Posts by Dale" rel="author" Dale  a   span  |  span class="comments-number"  a href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com the-terrible-truths-from-thailands-tiger-temples#respond" 133 comments  a   span   p 
 p You may like to read our list of  a href=" alternatives-tiger-temple " title="8 Responsible Alternatives to the Tiger Temple" 8 Responsible Alternatives to the Tiger Temple  a   p 
 p The following is a  b Guest Post  b  written by our friends  b Cody &amp; Giselle  b  of  b  a href="http:  www.mindfulwanderlust.com" title="Mindful Wanderlust" target="_blank" Mindful Wanderlust  a   b .  p 
 p This post talks about the realities of animal treatment at one of the largest attractions for foreign tourists throughout Southeast Asia and it’s a subject we both feel very strongly about.  b Please travel responsibly  b   p 
 p When we first discovered that we could visit tiger “ i sanctuaries  i ” in India and Thailand we were thrilled at the prospect of being able to spend some time with the beautiful beasts, petting their massive bodies, and experiencing the power they exude.  p 
 p We decided to do more research on these “ i sanctuaries  i ” before making the decision to visit one as we do with any place that claims to promote the well being and care of animals.  p 
 p There was a 2 year investigation done by CWI ( a href="http:  www.careforthewild.com " title="Care for the Wild: International" Care for the Wild International  a ) that revealed disturbing animal abuse and tiger trafficking at the tiger temple in Kanchanaburi, one of Thailand’s premiere tourist destinations. We didn’t want to just take their word for it, so we decided to do our own investigating.   p 
 p We decided to visit the Tiger Temple in Kanchanaburi. In our experience the tigers seemed to be sedated. There is an area where you can pay extra to get an up close and personal photo with a tiger.  p 
 p We witnessed an employee take a tourist by the wrist over to a tiger, and then proceed to scruff the tiger and splash a whole bottle of water in his her face to wake them up. They were chained so close to the ground that  b they couldn’t properly stand up  b . In another area employees were dangling raw meat above the tigers to tease them.  p 
 p These tiger temples kingdoms have been said to even go so far as to remove the tigers claws and teeth, even the  b tendons in their wrists are clipped  b  so they can’t swat or run with a lot of speed to ensure that tourists are not harmed when visiting.  p 
 p These “ i sanctuaries  i ” claim that they promote conservation and breeding of tigers, and aim to return them to the wild, yet most animals born in captivity would never be able to survive or fend for themselves if set free, so there is no conservation value.  p 
 p There is even speculation that some of the tigers bred are sold to be used in canned hunts.  p 
 p style="font-size: 1.15em;font-weight: 800;" Choose a responsible elephant tour:  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.dpbolvw.net click-7523262-12273053-1436287960000?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.intrepidtravel.com%2Fthailand%2Fchiang-mai-cooking-school-42437" target="_blank"  br 
 img src="http:  www.lduhtrp.net image-7523262-12273053-1436287960000" width="300" height="250" alt="Discover Thailand 300x250" border="0"   a   p 
 p The tigers are far from being able to roam free, they are chained and confined to a small cage for several hours a day. Adult tigers suffer from several behavioral and physical problems, including  b pacing back and forth  b  and  b self mutilation  b . This may be due to not having their natural needs met, as well as suffering from abuse.  p 
 p When visitors choose to take photos with the tigers for an extra fee, staff prop the tigers up on heavy concrete bowls and  b force them  b  to keep a captivating pose. Tourists are then able to pet, sit, or lie on the tigers until they get that perfect shot.  p 
 p Tigers are also kicked, punched, and pulled into position by their tail which we witnessed. They are also controlled by having urine squirted in their face at close proximity. In the wild tigers use urine as an aggressive or territorial signal. In a tiger temple when it is humans doing the squirting, it just seems cruel, and wrong.  p 
 p After everything we experienced, we don’t think these facilities are any place for tigers, they are for human entertainment, and we will continue to fight for the freedom of all animals.  p 
 p Sometimes we get so caught up in the excitement, awe, and enjoyment of beautiful wild animals, that we don’t really think about what they might want. We want to be around them, we want to caress them, we want to give them love, and experience their energy. If you truly love animals. Help them to be happy.  p 
 p  b “The assumption that animals are without rights, and the illusion that our treatment of them has no moral significance, is a positively outrageous example of Western crudity and barbarity. Universal compassion is the only guarantee of morality.  b ” br 
 i —- Arthur Schopenhauer, German Philosopher  i   p 
 p The author hasn’t even provided any evidence to this article. Some of the photos even depict happy Tigers. This is just a bunch of unsubstantiated “shock” statements to generate outrage without any real proof.  p 
 p Calvin Lewis animal psychologist here to provide his expert opinion on how a happy tiger looks. They don’t look happy, Calvin, they look sedated.  p 
 p I’ve seen several videos of these assholes abusing these beautiful creatures. All I have to say is they will get what is coming to them!!! Animals will defend themselves, I hope they do &amp; they deserve whatever they get. These monks are pure evil!!!  p 
 p These men should not even be called munks, Gautama Buddha belived that one should treat humans aswell as animals with respect.   p 
 p this makes me so sad  p 
 p My gf happened to visit the temple on her vacation along with her family. On her return, she showed me all the pictures that she had got clicked with the tigers. I could not stop myself from wondering, if it really possible to tame more than a 100 wild tigers and to keep them confined in an environment flocked by strangers trying to pet and caress these wild creatures. Recently i came across an news article ( a href="http:  www.bangkokpost.com news general 997733 dead-tiger-cubs-found-in-tiger-temple-freezer" rel="nofollow" http:  www.bangkokpost.com news general 997733 dead-tiger-cubs-found-in-tiger-temple-freezer  a ) and made up my mind to dig deeper, what unfolded was a history of barbarity and cruelty towards these amazing beasts. The need of the hour is to spread awareness among the tourists and bring an end to such business that monetize at the cost of such brutality  p 
 p I remain highly skeptical about the reports of abuse of the tigers by the monks.  I suspect soon we will see a debunk report with some journalists losing all credibility. Too much doesn’t make sense. Why would the monks allow documentaries to be filmed on the tigers if there was all this very un-Buddhist-like activity occurring?  p 
 p I saw a comment on here even spinning the fact that they cooked the chickens fed to the tigers, when documentaries explained it in detail.  It was simply done to eliminate the danger of disease, such as bird flu.   p 
 p And before someone starts pointing out the sources and what big name outfits they are, this would not be the first time journalists fudged a story then other journalists piggy backed on a false report. br 
There is a rabid segment of the far left that see no problem with lying about people if it advances their agenda. I am simply not buying the spin.  p 
 p To all those who think this story is false, this tourist attraction is now closed.  It was one of the most popular attractions in Thailand.  However there was substantial abuse uncovered including the fact that this was a Tiger slaughter house and the parts sold to China.  The tigers were sedated.  p 
 p It is not closed down as my mum and stepdad just visited this place  p 
 p it has been called back , it was only with the help of Mr Somchai Thuanthong the presiding attorney, who pass the judgement perfectly  p 
 p What stupid fucking morons are you idiots????????  p 
 p THEY NEVER DRUG THE TIGERS!!!  p 
 p That time of day is like 3am to us, the tigers sleep……..  p 
 p Come in the morning, Come at night, they run around all the time.  p 
 p I worked there and at 6am feed them, and walk them, and at night bring them back in. br 
The tigers sleep from around 12 noon to 5pm or so..   p 
 p In fact if this idiot who wrote this very lame article would have gone there for the 5:30pm show, br 
he would have seen many tigers jumping in the water and playing..   p 
 p WHY??? Because that is morning time to them! They are nocturnal..   p 
 p So shudup you lame idiots! You have no idea what your talking about!@  p 
 p Before writing nonsense, go see this video. Or maybe are you as an accomplice? a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=_cj4VQVl3Hw" rel="nofollow" https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=_cj4VQVl3Hw  a   p 
 p this guy is also fuck yeah  p 
 p Alan, you are a complete idiot!  p 
 p Thousands of people a year volunteer to take care of the tigers! I was one of them!  p 
 p The tigers are treated very well, fed very well, and treasured by many…  p 
 p In the wild they attack farmers! So farmers kill them!   p 
 p If these tigers were not SAVED, they would have been DEAD.  p 
 p Tiger Temple built a huge 5 hector area so all tigers could roam around, and they have more land then even that!   p 
 p Do you know what they eat?? CHICKENS BOILED FOR MANY MANY HOURS.   p 
 p The chickens are boiled till there is no blood in them. The Tigers love them.   p 
 p Along with many chickens a day, tigers get lots of other healthy things.   p 
 p They live better then we do! They are loved more than we are!   p 
 p They get top medical care as well.   p 
 p Monks dont  kill. Even old sick animals that need to go, they wont, it is against all Buddhist br 
rules to kill anything, but yet idiots like you listen to lies, and then create even more lies!  p 
 p Tiger Temple I think was the best place in the world for them, and yes, they need funding.. br 
And building Tiger World costs millions of dollars. br 
Tourist helping to pay for that, and can enjoy the tigers! The Tigers Enjoy it! br 
Till Tiger World finished, some space confined, but it was temporary, just like you live br 
in a studio apartment, but you want to live in a house someday!   p 
 p Is that human cruelty? Takes time for things to grow! and they were doing a great job at it!!!  p 
 p I agree with you John.  I think a lot of this is trumped up by Thai officials so they can benefit in some way.  Since you worked there and have first hand experience I support you.  Some journalists are trying to make names for themselves. br 
I think it is sad that the Abbott is being treated this way. br 
Thai officials should spend their time busting human trafficking and protecting Thai children.  p 
 p Sorry, but feeling the need to carry on like a child makes you loose all credibility. If you wish to make a point, act like an adult, not like a child having a tantrum.  p 
 p I confirm your words. In addition, they are engaging in bone traffics for Chinese medicine. This temple should be closed for a long time. But reading the comments below, we can only note the naivety or stupidity of the people, the choice ….  p 
 p Why aren’t these people arrested and the “zoos” burned to the damn ground??  p 
 p Once I read an article in a geographic magazine, when asked why they feed them boiled chickens, volunteer responded that the idea was that they were preventing the tigers from tasting blood, thus keeping them meek. To anyone with basic animal knowledge this is absurd! How one such tiger is supposed to hunt and survive in the wild? This clearly shows only that they never intended to return these animals in the wild. That single thing should ring mental alarm bells in every reasonable man.  p 
 p Just a speculation, but knowing that they cared little (if at all)  about the tigers they were abusing as breeding machines and goods for sale, would they bother to kill the cubs before they put them in the freezer?  p 
 p This will seem controversial, I know. But my opinion is that the monks are not doing anything wrong. I have researched the issue, and I feel as if the media is bloating it and putting in false truths about the temple to get more views. This article is full of half-truths to make it seem like the temple is a horrible place. The tiger cubs need to stay with their mother for a long time in the wild because they must learn how to survive in the wild. Here, they tame the animals. br 
This website should enlighten you. br 
 a href="http:  abcnews.go.com International AmazingAnimals story?id=6479393" rel="nofollow" http:  abcnews.go.com International AmazingAnimals story?id=6479393  a   p 
 p Does this look natural to you:  a href="http:  www.bangkokpost.com news general 998181 temple-faces-charges-after-40-dead-tiger-cubs-found" rel="nofollow" http:  www.bangkokpost.com news general 998181 temple-faces-charges-after-40-dead-tiger-cubs-found  a   p 
 p Ehh thats the point Kate – taming and there by harming wild animals should NOT take place at all!!!  p 
 p Looks like finally it would get shut down br 
 a href="http:  www.ndtv.com world-news dead-tigers-found-in-thai-temple-amid-trafficking-fears-1414326?fb" rel="nofollow" http:  www.ndtv.com world-news dead-tigers-found-in-thai-temple-amid-trafficking-fears-1414326?fb  a   p 
 p just found this article. to me it is simple, tiger is a wild animal that in normal situation you will not be able to pet or get very close. So to satisfy our “ego” these “places” offer what we want, the dream of be near these beautiful big cats, and we should all admit that we do not care, since we all go back home with a great shot near a tiger, and we feel “hip and cool” .  p 
 p What about the rights of the villagers who get killed by the Tigers? BTW the villagers are the ones that requested the monks to take in the Tigers (the first few anyway – I don’t know about the rest) apparently the mother tiger was killed by villager as she attacked them and as it had a baby, the villagers brought the baby tiger to the monk to raise it as it will die on its own in the wild. Please learn not to be so “one track” simple minded 🙂  p 
 p What a ridiculous and completely uninformed comment. It is the writer of such rubbush who is being blinkered and narrow minded. I’m just so glad that the authorities have finally acted to remove the tigers from this cynical, greed-driven place.  p 
 p Could give some substantive justification why the comment was “ridiculous and uninformed”?  It’s like me telling you that you’re a racist and a bigot without any proof.  Thanks  p 
 p We can argue this until blue in the face the problem is human overpopulation which steals land from the tigers and when tigers attack humans then this is a catastrophe, well, no it is not. All animals need their space and natural habitat, humans need to breed less to make space for all species on this ONE planet, we do not OWN it!!!!  p 
 p I have recently visited tiger temple coz i was in awe of posing with the beautiful and powerful animal… where in the world will u get an opportunity to pose with the Tiger. However after visiting Kanchan puri in Thailand known for Tiger Temple , I was extremely sad to see the way tigers r treated .. they r hit on face and splash water on face to keep them awake and make them pose for photos for perfect shot. They tease them a lot which I have witnessed my self. The Tiger is not an animal or rather no animal is to be treated this way.. they r beautiful and they r good when they r left in the wild.  The tigers in tiger temple are not real tigers.. i nean the way tbey r treated is horrible… i cojld see the claws missing ….sad to say such a sorry state of tigers ..even the wildness is lost in these innocent tigers.. I pray these tigers r set free and left on their own .  p 
 p i once visited safari zoo at bangkook, it seems like all the tiger cubs at front gate were hurt.they are asking 500 bath to have a picture with the tiger cub,but cub is really treated cruelly . br 
please stop this.  p 
 p I went to a tiger temple in Sri Racha (Thailand) because I heard the animals were treated well. I was so sad to discover they were not. Feeding a baby tiger seemed harmless enough (he was frisky and alert), but the adult tiger I took a photo with was hit in the face with a stick to get him to look at the camera. I’d rather he was treated properly than get that perfect shot!  p 
 p If this is the case, then I sincerely hope that the tigers make a good meal outta those guys.  p 
 p I had heard that at a temple near Chiang Mai the monks break the will of the juvenille tigers ‘in their care’ by using adult male urine that they spray and douse them with.  p 
 p omg, thank u 4 advising this to me. i thought it was a great place and was thinking about going-untill i found this page. i really think i have re-considered my plan. i really think its terrible what they do to those poor animals. im an animal lover-so i find what these people do to these tigers is DISCUSTING. br 
I hope people will find it in their hearts to stop animal cruelty.  p 
 p As usual, do gooders are living in a world that doesn’t exist.  We all wish everyone loved everyone else and treated animals as equals and weren’t destroying wild environments, but that isn’t the real world.  Having a place where tigers are kept as “pets” may not be ideal, but is one of the few real options to zoos and circuses.  Be real people!  And, there really is no tooth fairy.  p 
 p Hey Peter E. Thanks for sharing your thoughts on animal welfare and animal rights. I’m always pleased to read the thoughts of people who so clearly feel that they’re better than the other species on this earth.  p 
 p Zoos and circuses are for the 19th Century. Get with the times and leave discrimination in the past where it belongs.  p 
 p Dale, You’re an absolute jerk by endorsing this article that contains many mistruths and just fits your lala-agenda.  The article is a reflection of what the writers wanted to see and conveniently omitted positive aspects of Tiger Temple. Go back to your cage in the mental ward.  p 
 p With that type of attitude, things will never change. Humans are supposedly the superior species, they certainly are not! Animals are not here for use to use and abuse,  they deserve better than that. Only humans are so cruel to animals and each other. We have a lot to learn.  p 
 p Typical Western view on a situation from our privileged position in the world. And saying put yourself as a thinking  reasoning and self aware person in the mind of … Think further to the cause of a situations and get to the source. Before you look for a head to blame  p 
 p If being Westernized means not being cruel to animals then perhaps Thailand should strive towards “westernization”. It’s not cultural, it’s just cruel.  p 
 p I don’t think it’s a Western view to be respectful of animal rights. It’s a Modernist view and right that all species should have.  p 
 p We have human rights, why shouldn’t animals?  p 
 p If I locked you in a cage I’d imagine you’d like someone to raise their voice in concern, no? You’d like your family or friends to be vocal about their concern for you. You’d like the police to be vocal, a lawyer to be vocal. You’d scream at the top of your voice to be freed until you couldn’t scream any more.  p 
 p Typical Western view on a situation like this is to end injustice. More importantly to end the stupidity of the backwards societies that exploit animals and humans for a quick buck. Slavery of any kind shall not be tolerated in the 21st century especially by Monk handlers. I hope the handlers come back in the next incarnation as “lunch”.  p 
 p Nice response! I agree completely. Greed is the primary motivator for opportunistic mercenaries, and know no bounds, religious or otherwise.  p 
 p I was going to visit this place but after reading this article, I will not. I hope animal lovers can do something to stop these tigers being treated this way. Please start a petition, will do what we can to help  p 
 p There’s still a large push being made within Thailand and internationally to see a change made here.  p 
 p I’m sure if you search around they’ll be a petition already active! br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="94fef4e8d4 73119" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com reasons-to-use-a-house-sitter" 10 Reasons to Use a House Sitter During Your Holiday This Year  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 73119" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p yes, it was depressing….. I’ve linked this to my blog so people are aware of this animal abuse.  p 
 p I’m glad the post was meaningful to you. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="559469d72f 72988" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com travel-tips-for-poznan" Five Travel Tips for Poznan  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72988" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Please spread the word! This is horrible. ALL cub petting places are nothing but breeding factories of torture and abuse leading to the death of the animals.  p 
 p It was only yesterday that my sister told me we may want to spend a little longer than we had predicted in Bangkok on our next trip there, as she was really keen on visiting the Tiger Sanctuary. She read somewhere, on some travel diary on the web, that this was one of the things to do in Bangkok. Without even having read your post, my answer to her was: “Before we decide to do so, we need to find out whether this sanctuary is actually meant to protect the species and promote their breeding in a sustainable and responsible way, or if it is only meant for the entertainment of tourists.”   p 
 p What I only thought may be an unethical tourist attraction, indeed IS unethical. There is no way I am going there. And thankfully my sister, who’s also very sensible to issues of animal welfare, agrees with me.   p 
 p This post needs to be shared many many times. br 
 span class="cluv" Claudia recently posted… a class="75163ac400 72889" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.myadventuresacrosstheworld.com mendoza-argentina " Why I’m going back to Mendoza in 2016 and you should too  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72889" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I’m really glad that you liked the post, Claudia. I hope that enough people see it to make a long-term difference.  p 
 p I’ve just visited the temple and talked to the foreigners that volunteer there. I think this post is outdated. It is possible that in the past the animals were mistreated, but not now. Of course there is always the moral question: why we keep wild animals in cages or at zoo?   p 
 p In the digital age, in a place open to public and with foreign volunteers living and working on the temple’s grounds, is hard to hide any mistreatment or wrong doing.  p 
 p From Wikipedia: “The temple was cleared of allegations of animal mistreatment in a 2015 investigation conducted by wildlife officials and a raid by Thai soldiers. Charges were pressed for unlicensed possession of 38 protected birds found on the temple grounds”.  p 
 p The joke about the monks is very disrespectful in Thailand, as anywhere in the world. “Terrible Truth” may not be that much about “truth”… Or, as always, the truth is somewhere in the middle!  p 
 p We’ve spoken with people who’ve gone undercover volunteering there and what they’ve uncovered has been difficult to obtain, but further confirms that mistreatment is occurring.  p 
 p In addition to that, would you rather admire an animal in a cage, or in the wild on safari? I’d rather the second one and remove the stress to them that we’re putting onto them for our own satisfaction. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="f92b9e7172 72802" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com unusual-things-to-do-in-rome" Go Off The Path with 10 Unusual Things To Do in Rome  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72802" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Maybe you should read this as well br 
 a href="http:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 01 160121-tiger-temple-thailand-trafficking-laos0 " rel="nofollow" http:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 01 160121-tiger-temple-thailand-trafficking-laos0   a   p 
 p I recently visited this temple. I saw tigers, many, and people do not wanted to miss any opportunity to have pics with tigers, and I am sure none of them can come close if they are in natural habitat place. I asked one of the mentor, and he laughed, why do you doubt on us?? But one question remain in my mind, how can so many Big Cats remained calm?  p 
 p But on the contrary, after the selfie session, there was a show when all the tigers were freed and they played near the pond. It was surprise that the all the tigers immediately look very fresh and energetic. I am still confused, if it managed or true  p 
 p I’m sure it’s highly confusing to many people too. You see animals who seem to be okay, but deep down you know that they’re a long way from their natural environment, and if it were us in the cages so far from home we’d be emotionally broken. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="e694f80014 72793" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com street-art-in-georgetown-penang" Where To Find The Street Art in Georgetown, Penang  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72793" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p more people have to wake up to the plight of this animals,these wild animals are being decimated  p 
 p Totally. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="2a76cc5dba 72788" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com street-art-in-georgetown-penang" Where To Find The Street Art in Georgetown, Penang  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72788" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I don’t say any of this is incorrect as you know what you saw but I visited the tiger temple in kanchanaburi and there’s was no propping tigers up or teasing them with meat or squirting urine on their faces. The staff did take us to each tiger for a photo and told us what part of the tiger we can touch (they know which tigers heads you can touch and which are best not to based on the tigers personality). I had a lovely experience and although it would be better for tigers to be in the wild, the reason the first cubs were bought to the monks is because their mothers were poached. It will takeany generations to reintroduce te tigers into the wild but poaching is still an issue and the chance their heads will end up on someone’s wall is high.  p 
 p The monks use adult male tiger urine on the cubs to establish their domination as they are rearing them. That is why these tigers are as they are i.e. they have been broken. Do you really think that these tigers are behaving naturally?  p 
 p Drats.  I hoped it would be true.  Tame the wild beasts &amp; fear with love, the fulfilment of needs  and mutual trust.  Turns out that, once again, it is humans who are the true wild beasts with self-centered greed-motivated brains which can just about justify anything, including  exploitation and cruelty.  p 
 p Humans can really be the worst beings on the planet. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="121d259773 72412" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com how-to-write-house-sitting-profile" How To Write a Successful House Sitting Profile  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72412" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Thank you for this post… br 
Do you know if something is being done about it??  p 
 p In actual fact there’s a lot of work being done right now by the Thai government to remove these animals from these conditions at “attractions”.  p 
 p There’s still a great distance to go, but it’s a start. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="ee048398c8 72099" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 11-great-volunteer-ready-dog-shelters-in-thailand" 11 Great Volunteer-Ready Dog Shelters In Thailand  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72099" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p They maybe Tigers on the outside, and prey for anything they see whe they’re hungry in the wild but they are still cats. Poor cats. Well at least if you don’t treat them as cats treat them as living creatures and what the people responsible there aren’t doing their job well. That’s the point. Great post Dale and Franca, I hope this gets viewership so that some charity organization sees this.  p 
 p Credit goes to our friends Cody &amp; Giselle as it’s their post. We’d hate to steal any of the credit that’s rightfully there! ^_^  p 
 p Please make this tiger free ,this is an request.  p 
 p That’s something we’d love to see. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="78ba6da8c6 71683" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com what-is-slow-travel" What Is Slow Travel? – and Why We’ll Never Travel Another Way  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 71683" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p It’s pure cruelty to these tigers. br 
Even though they are beast the have the freedom to roam free. br 
I was so excited about tiger temple in Thailand, but seeing such actions, makes my angry. br 
This isn’t what you call tiger sanctuaries but it should be called “Photo Session with Tigers”. br 
Sedating to tigers is pure violation to animal rights. br 
Why won’t the official do anything about this.  p 
 p We couldn’t agree with you enough.  p 
 p As Tiger Temple sees itself in the news again and again, hopefully the Thai government will push for it’s closure. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="ab519d983a 71416" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com travel-to-controversial-countries" Should We Avoid Travel To Controversial Countries?  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 71416" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p There’s little room anywhere on the planet for wildlife. br 
It might benefit the egos of some to talk of cruelty to these creatures, but really, where is br 
there a place for them? br 
Better we should cull them, perhaps?  p 
 p What?  p 
 p Better we cull the species that cannot help itself from using up the planet.  7 billion and you speak of tigers being culled.  Please be the first to lessen he population.  Thanks.  p 
 p What? The only creatures I would cull are trolls like you.  p 
 p This is so true! Thank you for bringing awareness to this issue.  p 
 p We’re really glad you liked the piece and will let Cody &amp; Giselle know 😉  p 
 p Hi guys, I’ve just been to Tiger Temple and I found very interesting to see the other animals free, running around. When it comes to the tigers, I was excited to get up close to them. But afterwards I felt I was tricked into some sort of creepy tourist attraction with drugged animals. It doesn’t help that I went to some Snake Circus, afterwards, where an 8yo child was teasing a poisonous snake, while tourists kept taking pictures. The truth is, the day went from weird to plain wrong and dangerous… br 
 span class="cluv" Pedro @travelwithpedro recently posted… a class="9462fc408b 70143" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.travelwithpedro.com 7-snapshots-antarctica " 7 Snapshots of Antarctica  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 70143" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p It must have been really something to be there in person and come face-to-face with the realities of those animals situations. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="dc6a1f8d41 71365" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com help-hotel-isnt-vegan" How to Help (and Not Just Cope) When Your Hotel Isn’t Vegan  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 71365" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Wow thank you for writing about this Cody and Giselle. We have never visited one of these tiger “sanctuaries” because even without reading great articles like this one, the whole setup just seemed wrong to us. To have such a well-written post about what happens in these temples really helps to educate those who might not know any better.  p 
 p I couldn’t agree with you more. Cody and Giselle really know there stuff and are great examples of how to shine a light on questionable places like Tiger Temple. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="a3f48991e2 69078" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com foreigner-at-home " Feeling Like A Foreigner At Home – The Downside Of Travel  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 69078" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p This is absolutely depressing and needs to be redressed urgently. Thanks for bringing these cruel practices to light. There are many things wrong about the unchecked tourism in Thailand. I’m sure there are many entertainment alternatives to posing with declawed, sedated and enervated tigers. br 
 span class="cluv" paper boat sailor recently posted… a class="c5edefe0a8 67629" rel="nofollow" href="http:  paperboats.net 2014 10 30 postcards-from-portobello " Postcards from Portobello Road  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 67629" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p We’re both really glad to share this post by our friends, Cody and Giselle. Such a huge shame. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="b33f19fc15 67806" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com invisible-walls-of-berlin " Lights &amp; The Invisible Walls Of Berlin  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 67806" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Reallly good posts here. I think the idea of ‘travelling’ is so far away from what it should be. It is just one big commercial operation.  p 
 p If this was about conservation then it would be people going to the ‘sanctuary’ learning about animals and maybe having the opportunity to get a photo with a baby one. while the older ones are realeased back into the wild. How much of the money made at these places goes into any programme to fight poaching and helping wild tigers?  p 
 p It would be interesting to know what some of the travel companies view is on these places. They could really help inform people of the practices of these places and promote good ethical travelling.  p 
 p We’d  b both  b  love to see travel companies change their thoughts and offers for places such as these not just in Asia, but across the globe; but the only way that’s going to happen is if we (travellers and tourists alike) stop giving them our cash. Money talks a lot more than words ever will.  p 
 p Thank you for this excellent article.Look at a lot of pictures of people posing with tiger, I will be sad to think that is being abused they me. I’ve read a lot of bad things about Tiger Temple and is run by man. However, I have heard a report much better in………….  p 
 p Things seem to be improving, but there’s still work to be done. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="d8c7ce35ed 71706" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com travel-tips-for-barcelona" 5 More Travel Tips for Barcelona  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 71706" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Thank you for this article.  I live in Chiang Mai and it sickens me every time I see a songthaew go past with ‘Tiger Kingdom’ plastered all over it or a driver in street asks me if I want to go.  I would never in a million years visit such a place.  p 
 p I had a conversation recently with a friend about the elephant ‘sanctuaries’ and he said he’d been to one and the elephants ‘looked happy’.  I tried to explain that of course they don’t abuse them in front of tourists!  We then talked about the tiger parks and he said he’d like to go but would be too scared to go near them.  I said I’ve love to go, love to cuddle up with a such a beautiful creature *if* there was an ethical way to do it.  There is not so I will never go.  p 
 p In the end people just bury their heads in the sand.  They either don’t care or justify to themselves as my friend did with the elephants. br 
 span class="cluv" Noor – Desert to Jungle recently posted… a class="2b1151a68d 8037" rel="nofollow" href="http:  deserttojungle.wordpress.com 2013 07 22 mangos-thailand-an-anthropomorphic-look-at-a-desert-dogs-journey-to-the-land-of-smiles " Mango’s Thailand – An Anthropomorphic Look at a Desert Dog’s Journey to the Land of Smiles  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 8037" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Having spent a little time at one of the most ethical elephant sanctuaries in Thailand (Elephant Nature Park) we learn’t so much about the abuse that happens to them in other parks or for those animals that are employed for certain jobs. The reason that someone might not see them being physically abused is that they’ve been so heavily abused as they’re growing up that they only have to have one of the abuses gestured at them that they are to scared to do anything other than what they’ve been trained to do.  p 
 p It’s sad and sickening to see these things and knowing that it still goes on at other elephant “sancturies” makes me upset.  p 
 p We had exactly the same feeling walking through Chiang Mai and viewing all of the ‘Tiger Temple’ stickers that are plastered over absolutely everything. So annoying. Every time I saw a songthaew driver talking prices with a tourist about taking them I just wanted to drag the unlucky person away. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="73572ceec7 8087" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 10 how-we-tried-to-love-vientiane-but-failed " How We Tried To Love Vientiane, But Failed  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 8087" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p The circus is guilty of this.  Eventually you just see an elephant get tired of it and start trampling everything, only to be shot instead of sedated and placed somewhere where it could be help and cared for, if even possible.  People are vile creatures….well, most of us imo.  p 
 p To be housed in a large man made environment where the animal can run around and spread awareness to the general public about their plight is one thing. To be drugged and chained is an entirely different thing. Coming from an Environmental background, I strongly believe in sanctuary and refuge centers, that is the ones that actually provide a good home for the animals in their care. Unfortunately there are so many places that claim to be good but in reality are just after a quick buck. I’ve also read that a lot of the monks are monks not by spiritual choice but as an alternative to jail. Not sure if that is true or not but it would shed some light on why these monks treat the tigers the way they do. I also wonder, if in time these places where able to be shut down, what would happen to the tigers? My guess is that they would just be transferred to another country that would end up keeping them captive in the same manner. It would be ideal if the tigers where able to be rescued from here and then taken to a breeding center where their young could be released into the wild after their two years with their mothers.  p 
 p We too would live to see these places closed and whilst that might come as stressful to the animals as they’re re-homed and transfered to somewhere (hopefully) better, it can’t be any worse than what we’ve read and heard about these places.  p 
 p Thinking back to our time at Elephant Nature Park in Thailand, most of the elephants there are rescued from one place or another and whilst they don’t completely return to how natural things should have been, they certainly enjoy the benefits of a more liberated life. Perhaps the same could happen for these tigers too. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="6f9a97bd90 8010" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 five-tips-pics-for-george-town-malaysia " Five Tips &amp; Pics for George Town, Malaysia  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 8010" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p This sounds less like a sanctuary and more like a prison. So sad. Thanks for the heads up. We definitely try to do our research before we do tours like this as well. Thanks for sharing! br 
 span class="cluv" Dan @ A Cruising Couple recently posted… a class="0048c8e147 7825" rel="nofollow" href="http:  acruisingcouple.com 2013 09 best-reason-to-visit-vietnam " The Best Reason to Visit Vietnam  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7825" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p No problem 🙂 We’re really glad that Giselle and Cody could share this not just with us, but everybody whose dropped by to read about the truth.  p 
 p Thank you for sharing your thoughts and experiences in regard to the tiger temples. I have heard similar concerns from others and really appreciate that you are posting such a enlightening commentary of the abuses in the “sanctuaries”, particularly as they are so popular for tourists visiting Thailand. br 
 span class="cluv" Mary @ Green Global Travel recently posted… a class="76391b87c4 7824" rel="nofollow" href="http:  greenglobaltravel.com 2013 09 11 icebergs-in-antarctica " ANTARCTICA: The Haunting Beauty of Icebergs in Antarctica  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7824" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I think this is a great issue to bring awareness to, esp. since I have been volunteering and investigating Tiger Temple the past month and researching the issue myself.   p 
 p Here is an overview specifically about Tiger Temple: br 
 a href="http:  www.aroundtheworldin80jobs.com tiger-temple-controversy-thailand " rel="nofollow" http:  www.aroundtheworldin80jobs.com tiger-temple-controversy-thailand   a   p 
 p A lot of people seem to really emphasize the drugging issue, which important as I soon will discuss, but I think it takes away focus from the larger issue: how to protect wild tigers.  p 
 p At the beginning of the 20th century, there were about 100,000 wild tigers, now in 2013, we are looking at about 3,300 (according to the WWF). The numbers are dwindling at such a rate that there will not be enough genetic differentiation to support wild tigers by 2020.  p 
 p I could (and will in the coming month) go on and on. But the main thing I am looking at now, is what is the best way to support the wild tiger. When you look at large NGOs, a lot of the money that goes there goes to the running of the organization, rather than on ground conservation. However, it will take the political will of the Thai, Burmese and Chinese governments to enforce SITES (a pact on non-trade of wildlife and parts). Unfortunately, bribery and corruption are rampant.  p 
 p It is a very serious issue that is not discussed about enough. br 
 span class="cluv" Turner recently posted… a class="32df077ac5 7804" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.aroundtheworldin80jobs.com volunteering-with-tigers-in-thailand " Volunteering with Tigers: The Not-So Undercover Tiger Investigator  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7804" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p In the wild, Tiger cubs are entirely dependent on their mothers care for up to two years. And in your blog about the Tiger Temple you were told that the cubs were taken away from their mothers after 2 weeks. br 
 That is extremely cruel and in no way is that a good thing for the Tigers.  p 
 p Even if their numbers went up, it would be extremely difficult to train the cubs to adapt to being in the wild, and we doubt very much that they will be trained for that purpose.  p 
 p These so called sanctuaries always tell people that they are looking out for the (insert wild animal species here) best interest, because people gravitate to goodness. br 
 We saw nothing positive at the Tiger temple.   p 
 p If they had any intentions of raising these cubs to be set free, they would not (or should not) be interacting with so many people as the Tigers lose their fear for humans which can lead to their destruction if they come too close to human dwellings in the wild.  p 
 p The best way to raise their numbers is to commit to protecting the Tigers in the wild, their prey, and their habitat.  p 
 p All we saw at the Tiger temple were dollar signs and facebook profile photo opportunities.  p 
 p Let’s be honest here. Many people want to hold a baby Tiger more than they truly care about their natural habitat and seeing them free and afraid of humans (which they should be) br 
 span class="cluv" Giselle and Cody recently posted… a class="14c06e50df 7863" rel="nofollow" href="http:  mindfulwanderlust.com taking-the-slow-boat-to-luang-prabang " Taking the slow boat to Luang Prabang  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7863" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I also did my research on Tiger Temples in Thailand. I had heard everything that Cody and Giselle mentioned here but, like them, I wanted to find out for myself. I knew for a fact that the Tiger Temple in Kanchanaburi was not what I wanted. Friends of mine had gone and it looked sad and depressing. Instead, I opted for the Tiger Kingdom in Chiang Mai.   p 
 p Cody and Giselle, if you read this I would be interested to know your opinion on the Tiger Kingdom in Chiang Mai. When I went, there were babies and “small” tigers who were definitely not drugged in my opinion. They were running around, biting at my ankles, rough housing with one another, etc. They were not chained.Then, there was the large tigers. Sadly, I believe they were drugged. They were not chained but made no effort to move as tourists laid their bodies over the tigers for a photo.   p 
 p I asked the staff about de-clawing there and was told that at Tiger Kingdom they don’t de-claw the tigers, but they do “trim their nails, like a house cat”. In my opinion, Tiger Kingdom seems less invasive, at least on the young tigers, but the large ones definitely appeared drugged.  p 
 p All in all, I regret going and will never return and would not recommend it to others! br 
 span class="cluv" Michelle recently posted… a class="e0be194b9d 7793" rel="nofollow" href="http:  whirlwindtravel.wordpress.com 2013 09 17 becoming-one-of-them " Becoming “One of Them”  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7793" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p This is so disgustingly pathetic. Who in their right mind can even think this is acceptable? Like really, even pictures of monks with the tigers?!?!? Get real! Open your eyes, ears and minds. Respect your fellow beings and together we can make this a more beautiful planet.  p 
 p And so say all of us. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="150dc2e1bb 7987" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 weekend-photo-theme-home-food-nostalgia " Weekend Photo Theme – Home Food Nostalgia  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7987" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I’m so glad I haven’t been to any tiger “sanctuaries.” I would really cry. I love cats and can’t bear to see them (even such huge ones as tigers) chained and drugged! :(( br 
 span class="cluv" Aleah | SolitaryWanderer.com recently posted… a class="5cf0bb70d3 7767" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.solitarywanderer.com 2013 09 love-hate-relationship-saigon " How My Favorite Country Betrayed Me  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7767" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Though I’m not sure it exists already, I think there should be a way of certifying an animal sanctuary so that you know that it’s intentions are true and for the benefit of the animals.  p 
 p Perhaps the WWF or other wildlife organisations run something along those lines already? br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="38e27087f1 7986" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 weekend-photo-theme-home-food-nostalgia " Weekend Photo Theme – Home Food Nostalgia  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7986" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p A TRUE animal sanctuary does not exploit their animals by putting them on display. Period.  p 
 p Totally, hence why we’re so pleased to share our list of  a rhef="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com alternatives-tiger-temple" title="8 Responsible Alternatives to Tiger Temple" rel="nofollow" 8 Responsible Alternatives to the Tiger Temple  a .  p 
 p This is shameful 🙁 br 
I heard a whisper about these practices but this confirms it for me. br 
When I was over in Thailand I heard about this place, and was really keen to visit as it seemed like a cool idea = obviously too good to be true. Glad I never went. br 
Following the CWI Investigation, is anything going to happen?  p 
 p I think that things are still ongoing but I’m not as up-to-date as I’d like to be. Perhaps Giselle and Cody may know more? br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="425a844bc4 7985" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 weekend-photo-theme-cats " Weekend Photo Theme – Cats  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7985" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Wow….I’m shocked it’s monks behind this.  The poor, poor things.  What majestic animals.  The only way to combat cruelty of this sort is to not pay them by going there  and to spread the word.  I’m a travel agent, and you’ve now given me the idea to start a “Do Not Do” list for places my clients travel.  p 
 p There are many places that we’ve heard about that would fit your ‘Do Not Do’ list and unfortunately the some of those in Thailand. It’ such a shame that these things are happening, we only hope that peoples opinions of the country itself don’t change as we loved our time there. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="9eb60619e0 7984" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 combining-great-art-architecture-at-penangs-china-house " Combining Great Art &amp; Architecture at Penang’s ‘China House’  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7984" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p This just breaks my heart. Those tigers absolutely should not be chained up like that. I expected better from monks, especially considering that dogs had free reign over most of the Thai temples we visited. br 
 span class="cluv" Heather recently posted… a class="d14c885fdd 7757" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.ferretingoutthefun.com 2013 09 15 snapshot-perilous-carts " Snapshot: Shanghai’s Perilous Carts  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7757" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Unfortunately the dogs don’t always get the best treatment from the monks either and as I’m sure Cody &amp; Giselle would be able to tell you – as they’ve previously told us – there are some pretty upsetting stories to be heard. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="d01ca380cb 7983" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 weekend-photo-theme-home-food-nostalgia " Weekend Photo Theme – Home Food Nostalgia  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7983" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I am sad, but I am not shocked that the Tiger Temple is not a good place for tigers. It *could* be a good place, but maybe profits from tourists are too tempting to pass up and the tigers don’t complain… br 
If the Temple is able to get the proper support and guidance, maybe the situation could change to really benefit tigers more than tourists. br 
 span class="cluv" Heather recently posted… a class="ea1d30e312 7745 p" rel="nofollow" href="http:  travelwanderings.com munda-wanga-zoo " Finally Outside Lusaka: See African Animals at Munda Wanga Zoo  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip p 7745" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p That is something I’d like to see. If the Tiger Temple (or any of the big cat locations) were to move towards a true conservation stance then I think my opinion of the place and the opinion would change, however; until that happens I’m going to find it hard to not inform everyone I know of the truth so that they can at least make informed decisions before they arrive in Thailand. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="5b4fb84e2f 7982" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 combining-great-art-architecture-at-penangs-china-house " Combining Great Art &amp; Architecture at Penang’s ‘China House’  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7982" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Although this place was on my ‘must do’ list I hadn’t done any research because it was off in ‘future plans’ but I am so saddened to hear this. I am so disappointed and disheartned to hear that monks, people of spiritual peace could be involved in something so cruel. br 
Its officially off my list and thanks to other comments I will be very aware of other large cat attractions when we finally do make it to Thailand 😉 br 
 span class="cluv" Eden Rudin recently posted… a class="e744ec29f6 7739" rel="nofollow" href="http:  belizeexpats.com 5-biggest-purchases-we-have-made-to-date " 5 biggest purchases we have made in 5 months  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7739" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p One of the aims of our sharing this great article with everyone is the hope that people are informed before they make some of the decisions on their travels and holidays. Thankfully it seems that the message is getting to people and they’re making more informed decisions.  p 
 p I too am surprised that monks are capable of such cruelty. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="052c4e9810 7981" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 weekend-photo-theme-cats " Weekend Photo Theme – Cats  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7981" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p i think that’s really sad. people in diff parts of the world just have a totally different mindset on how animals should be treated. i noticed when i was visiting the zoos in diff countries in asia &amp; middle east that they get treated much differently than the ones here. br 
 span class="cluv" estherjulee recently posted… a class="d3862746e4 7734" rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.estherandjacob.com zappos-las-vegas-downtown-project " Zappos Las Vegas Grand Opening | Downtown Project  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7734" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Seeing the differences between humans from country to country is interesting, informative and the largest joy we get from travelling. Just imaging if we were to chain all of the people we see just for our own amusement?  p 
 p If you wouldn’t do it to humans, why is it okay to do so to animals? br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="0ba4849bf8 7980" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 combining-great-art-architecture-at-penangs-china-house " Combining Great Art &amp; Architecture at Penang’s ‘China House’  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7980" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I hate watching animals in captivity. I understand the need for animal refuges, but there is a big difference between that and a petting zoo where people capitalize off of chained-up animals  just to make a buck.   p 
 p Sick, sick, sick.  p 
 p Couldn’t agree with you more. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="ed93c85ee3 7979" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 the-vibrant-capturing-street-art-of-george-town " The Vibrant &amp; Capturing Street Art of George Town  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7979" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p That’s just awful. How can someone treat an animal so cruelly? br 
 span class="cluv" Jennifer recently posted… a class="9da9475b08 7727" rel="nofollow" href="http:  jdombstravels.com russian-superstitions " The Many Superstitions of Russia #gAdvRussia  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7727" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p That’s a question we’ve been asking ourselves more and more as we travel. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="287b9f3fc2 7978" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 the-vibrant-capturing-street-art-of-george-town " The Vibrant &amp; Capturing Street Art of George Town  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7978" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p OK, thanks. I would never, ever, visit this place, or the Kanchanaburi Safari place up the road. BUT, I’ve read reports from others that say the tiger temple is OK, the tigers are tame, they’re well fed and sleepy. I know a tourist was mauled there just last week. ( we are in Thailand now, it was news) I’ve seen the documentary about how the tigers are reincarnated abbots and the monks adore them. I’ve seen tigers all over SE Asia drugged for tourist happy snaps, but in my heart I wanted to believe that this place was different. It’s run by monks, monks are good, aren’t they? I don’t know what to think, but like I said, I’d never visit any attraction like this. br 
 span class="cluv" Alyson recently posted… a class="38c0bdaf11 7724" rel="nofollow" href="http:  worldtravelfamily.com hiring-moped-ko-phangan " I knew hiring a moped on Ko Phangan was a bad idea…  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7724" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p We both had the same thoughts; “how can monks behave like this? Could it be true?”, but having read so many conflicting reports we can’t help but imagine that there’s no smoke without fire.  p 
 p Perhaps things are better now than they may have been once before, but it’s not the solution these animals deserve as I’m sure you’ll agree.  p 
 p I hadn’t been in Thailand a month before a local friend chided me for a similar statement. She said “Because someone wears a monks clothes does not mean they [are a] monk.” Certainly made me take a step back and look more closely at the difference between religious monks at wats and ceremonies and commercial monks at places like this and handing out blessings from the back of pickups on the expressway in Bangkok (for a fee, of course) br 
 span class="cluv" Lila recently posted… a class="3d150f6e9e 9854" rel="nofollow" href="http:  girlsgoneroad.tumblr.com post 71750155548" When You End Up Beside The Hot Mysterious Traveler You’ve Been Eyeing All Night At Midnight  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 9854" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p What a coincidence guys. During our last visit in Thailand in 2012, we visited exactly the same Tiger Temple. We were shocked to read about the animal abuse there and we wrote a blog post on it —&gt;  a href="http:  etramping.com animal-abuse-in-the-tiger-temple-in-bangkok " rel="nofollow" http:  etramping.com animal-abuse-in-the-tiger-temple-in-bangkok   a  br 
 span class="cluv" Agness recently posted… a class="455b3dee75 7722" rel="nofollow" href="http:  etramping.com travel-reading-recommendationboon-dockers-journey-america-one-walmart-time " Travel Reading Recommendation:“Boon Dockers: A Journey through America one Walmart at a time”  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7722" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I knew exactly the post you were talking about before I even opened the page.  p 
 p It’s a good article and we’d recommend every reading it. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="7ec3a79020 7976" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 combining-great-art-architecture-at-penangs-china-house " Combining Great Art &amp; Architecture at Penang’s ‘China House’  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7976" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Living in Korea, I see a lot of photos of people posing with tigers and it makes me sad to think they they are being mistreated. I have read lots of bad things about the Tiger Temple that is run by monks. However, I have heard much better reports on the Tiger Kingdom in Chiang Mai. br 
 span class="cluv" Meagan | LifeOutsideOfTexas.com recently posted… a class="1dac1646bb 7714" rel="nofollow" href="http:  lifeoutsideoftexas.com 2013 09 16 how-i-met-an-australian-guy-in-korea " How I met an Australian guy in Korea…  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7714" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Personally I’m of the opinion that animals shouldn’t be kept up anywhere that isn’t their natural habit (with the exception of conservation efforts), but whilst I know this might not happen soon, I’m glad to read that things may be better elsewhere; but it’s not the solution I’m hoping for. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="4a7cea15ea 7975" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com 2013 09 combining-great-art-architecture-at-penangs-china-house " Combining Great Art &amp; Architecture at Penang’s ‘China House’  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7975" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p I always wondered about this, and it seemed too good to be true. They just use the word “sanctuary” or “temple” just to sound pleasant, but it’s really just exploitation. Sigh. It would be nice if someone did it “correctly,” but there’s no way you could visit the tiger inside the cage unless it’s sedated, and then the tiger is just a caged decoration. br 
 span class="cluv" OCDemon recently posted… a class="09f80eb761 7707" rel="nofollow" href="http:  20literadventure.com 10-big-russian-stereotypes-that-are-kinda-true " 10 big Russian stereotypes (that are kinda true)  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7707" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p It is definitely exploitation and it is disgusting. This sort of thing happens all around the world to all sorts of animals and humans alike. The long-necked Karen tribes in Thailand who are placed in more tourist areas so that tours can make money off of them, The Alms ceremony in Luang Pabang where hotels take van loads of people to watch the monks receive their daily alms etc….It’s really sad that a lot of people cannot fight the urge….Everything is turned into a photo op and no one thinks twice about what is really happening 🙁 br 
 span class="cluv" GiselleandCody recently posted… a class="27f21ac4d9 7826" rel="nofollow" href="http:  mindfulwanderlust.com taking-the-slow-boat-to-luang-prabang " Taking the slow boat to Luang Prabang  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7826" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p Thanks for raising awareness about this. Just sad how we treat animals these days… the more people know, the more they will participate less with these activities. The tigers in your pictures look so depressed… 🙁 Sad to see such majestic animals look like that… and monks… monks encourage this. :'(  p 
 p It really is sad, though as someone has mentioned in a great comment above; “wearing a Monk’s clothes doesn’t make you a monk”. Perhaps  i some  i  of the monks we see at similar animal attractions aren’t quite what they appear to be.  p 
 p Thank you for this article, I have been mainly focused on canned hunting, roadside zoos and seaworld. I adore animals and am heading to Thailand so off the back of cub petting in SA I looked into it and elephant rides in Thailand. Well for a completely vile eye opener look at fantasea Island the most shameful thing I have ever read about!!! Having elephants with fireworks and bullhooks what is wrong with people? It has a high rating on trip adviser but how is beyond me!!!  p 
 p Anyway I ranted off of topic a friend of mine showed me a picture of him with a cub, I obviously questioned it and got the response ‘it’s with the monks they love the Tigers’. Being a Buddhist at heart I do wanted to belive that! Deep down I’m not going to lie I feel I could live with the animals peacefully so presumed these guys had found a way…. After reading your article I let my friend know and will be sharing this also. br 
 These people arn’t monks they are money making villains the principal of being a monks is do no harm to any living thing well the evidence speaks for itself!!!   p 
 p Long post but basically keep up the good work   p 
 p I am  disagree with this post and word usage of being “exploited” and “abused”. I mean the tigers are in a way better situation than being in a circus and living inside a 10×10 cage and or travelling to  city to city in a cage and having no or very limited access to vet, if needed, leave alone the situation of getting killed brutally by poachers.  Let me ask you this, if you own a pet, dont you care for them? Tigers are treated like pets there and being cared like no other place in the world. You can not compare a zoo with this. So when you have pets you care for them and if they are being somewhat domesticated then there is nothing to whine about. At the same point if the tigers are getting sedated or their tooth or nails are being cut if thats true thats not good at all. I agree at this point. Still, the way this scenario and tigers conditions expressed here is totally “harsh” and without any comparison to what other options species facing extinct have. I bet, today or in 100 years, tigers living here will have better chances to be seen by your youngers than in circus or any zoo or any wilderness.  p 
 p Consider for a second the implications of replacing the word ‘Tiger’ with ‘Human’ and think over your thoughts again.  p 
 p If we subjected humans to the same conditions that these tigers were put through then there’s no doubt that we’d prefer these wonderful animals to be free of their chains and cages, and left alone or returned to the wild to live out their lives. br 
 span class="cluv" Dale recently posted… a class="02cb8e28b2 72570" rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com how-to-write-house-sitting-profile" How To Write a Successful House Sitting Profile  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 72570" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p We suppose what it really comes down to is this: Tigers in the wild, or Tigers in captivity. Their babies are their own. We do not believe that they should be taken away from them so they can be paraded around so tourists can get photos. While living at Elephant Nature Park for 6 months we stopped going to bath and feed the elephants because we felt they should just be left to wander and live as naturally as they could  after so many years of suffering.   p 
 p  Animals are not entertainment. They have lives that they do not want taken away, and they also have babies that they do not want taken away from them.   p 
 p Whether the Tigers are drugged or not, should they be chained? Should they be forced to be propped up on big concrete bowls to ensure a good photo for a paying tourist? They are being forced into a life they did not choose for themselves.  p 
 p Simply put, as “extreme” as some people may think our views are, they are slaves. br 
We use them for everything and make excuses to ease our guilt. br 
 span class="cluv" Giselle and Cody recently posted… a class="f67ebb6a26 7864" rel="nofollow" href="http:  mindfulwanderlust.com taking-the-slow-boat-to-luang-prabang " Taking the slow boat to Luang Prabang  a  span class="heart_tip_box"  img class="heart_tip u 7864" alt="My Profile" style="border:0" width="30" height="20" src="https:  www.angloitalianfollowus.com wp-content plugins commentluv images littleheartplus.png"   span   span   p 
 p It’s good to see the ugly truth about this creepy fake temple run by fake psycho monks is coming out. Close it forever and forget about it  p 
 p  b Disclaimer:  b  Some links on this website are affiliate links, from which we make a small commission  b at no extra expense to you  b  using them.  p 
 p We only recommend services we use ourselves and would  b never  b  promote anything we didn't love.  p 
 p id="footer-info" Designed by  a href="http:  www.elegantthemes.com" title="Premium WordPress Themes" Elegant Themes  a  | Powered by  a href="http:  www.wordpress.org" WordPress  a   p 
