 p Tigers are one of the most charismatic and beautiful animals on earth. They are the world’s largest cat and can live across a wide range of habitats, from mountains to coastal wetlands. Most of the world’s tigers live in India within the borders of a number of national parks and tiger reserves; but their numbers are decreasing rapidly. Tiger tourism has become a hot button issue in India, with the country’s recent Supreme Court decision to end a moratorium on tourism in these reserves.  p 
 p Many wildlife conservationists and respected ecotourism operators advocate that tourism can help save this iconic predator,  em Panthera tigris  em . They argue that the presence of tourists helps keep away poachers from important habitat. Furthermore, some proactive tour operators, such as  a href="http:  www.wildland.com destinations asia india givingback.aspx" target="_blank" Wildland Adventures  a , put portions of their profits toward conservation and social programs in the countries to which they travel.  p 
 p Sanjay Gubbi, tiger program coordinator for the well-respected conservation organization  a href="http:  www.panthera.org blog insiders-take-reality-indias-wildlife-tourism-ban" target="_blank" Panthera  a , has said that, “India’s wildlife tourism industry benefits communities by stimulating local economies and providing employment.” Many also believe that tiger tourism helps inspire travelers to support conservation efforts and create personal connections between tourists and wildlife; however, there is still much more to do to encourage visitors to deepen their relationship with these animals.  p 
 p Ajay Dubey, a conservationist who works with  a href="http:  www.prayatnaindia.org " target="_blank" Prayatna  a , believes tiger tourism as currently practiced in India is a threat to the big cats. Panthera’s Gubbi notes that many tourism operations adhere to “unethical safari practices.” In some preserves, lodges have been built in key tiger habitat, and the cats are further stressed by large numbers of Jeeps overcrowding them.  p 
 p Dubey recently took the Indian government to court to spur improvements in how tiger tourism is managed in the country. This lawsuit has divided many people on both sides of the argument, and whether the final ruling — which reversed the ban on tourism in core sections of India’s 41 preserves — will improve the situation is yet to be seen. The hope is that the grievances that spurred the original ban have led to better managements strategies for these rare habitats.  p 
 p One point on which both sides of the argument agree is the severity of the situation. Most assessments estimate approximately 3,000 tigers remaining in the wild across Asia, with about 1,700 existing in India. These numbers indicate more than a 50 percent decline over the past decade in tiger populations and are why they are currently listed as endangered by the  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 15955 0" target="_blank" IUCN’s Red List  a . The main reason for this decline however, is not tourism but poaching. Tiger skins and body parts can bring thousands of dollars on the black market.  p 
 p I have spent most of the past decade working on improving how tourism benefits the efforts to protect endangered sea turtles. While these two animals and their conservation methods are very different, many of the same principles apply. For tourism to work, it must be done in a way that minimizes damage to key habitat, prevents unnecessary stress on the animals, and generates concrete benefits to both conservation programs and nearby communities.  p 
 p The recent ruling by the Indian Supreme Court on Prayatna’s lawsuit has the potential to improve how tourism is managed in the country. Unfortunately, people on both sides of the argument were disappointed in the lack of strong regulations to protect tigers in the decision. Julian Matthews of  a href="http:  www.toftigers.org NewsItem tourism%20ban%20lifted%20%20toft%20comments%20on%20judgement" target="_blank" Travel Operators for Tigers  a  stated that, “Sadly there is nothing in these guidelines that gives anyone… a legal ‘road map’ as to how they (the forests) can be restored.” The primary responsibility for ending the construction of infrastructure is now in the hands of the state governments, which have been given six months to develop new tourism and conservation guidelines.  p 
 p Tour operators have a strong responsibility to advocate not only for regulations that will allow their businesses to grow but also to make compromises that keep the best interests of the tigers in mind. If real changes aren’t made to both improve tourism management and reduce poaching, tourism businesses and local communities will suffer alongside these charismatic animals.  p 
 p    p 
 p  em – Brad Nahill  em   p 
 p  em Brad Nahill is a wildlife conservationist, writer, activist, and fundraiser. He is the Director &amp; Co-Founder of  a href="http:  www.seethewild.org " SEEtheWILD  a , the world’s first non-profit wildife conservation travel website.  To date, we have generated more than $300,000 for wildlife conservation and local communities and our volunteers have completed more than 1,000 work shifts at sea turtle conservation project. SEEtheWILD is a project of The Ocean Foundation. Follow SEEtheWILD on  a href="https:  www.facebook.com SEEtheWILD" Facebook  a  or  a href="https:  twitter.com SEEtheWILD" Twitter  a .  em   p 
 p Learn more:  p 
 p Travelers interested in visiting India’s tiger reserves should seek out tour operators that both minimize impacts on tigers and support conservation efforts.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.seethewild.org 127 tiger-facts.html" Learn facts about tigers and tiger conservation tourism at SEEtheWILD.  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  www.toftigers.org " Travel Operators for Tigers  a  has developed a rating system for operators, lodges, and other tourism businesses.  p 
 p Read about  a href="http:  www.bluetoad.com publication ?i=134418&amp;p=14" a recent visit to India’s National Parks to see tigers in WildHope Magazine  a  and check out  a href="http:  www.bluetoad.com publication ?i=134418&amp;p=20" a tiger conservation photo essay by award-winning photographer Steve Winter  a .  p 
 p  a href="http:  india.blogs.nytimes.com 2012 07 25 a-conversation-with-tiger-activist-ajay-dubey " http:  india.blogs.nytimes.com 2012 07 25 a-conversation-with-tiger-activist-ajay-dubey   a   p 
 p  a href="http:  www.deccanherald.com content 288721 uproar-tiger-tourism.html" http:  www.deccanherald.com content 288721 uproar-tiger-tourism.html  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com 2012-11-01 flora-fauna 34856504_1_areas-of-tiger-reserves-dudhwa-national-park-buffer-area" http:  articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com 2012-11-01 flora-fauna 34856504_1_areas-of-tiger-reserves-dudhwa-national-park-buffer-area  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  zeenews.india.com exclusive tiger-a-battle-for-survival_5797.html" http:  zeenews.india.com exclusive tiger-a-battle-for-survival_5797.html  a   p 
 p style="text-align: left"  a href="http:  www.toftigers.org NewsItem tourism%20ban%20lifted%20%20toft%20comments%20on%20judgement" http:  www.toftigers.org NewsItem tourism%20ban%20lifted%20%20toft%20comments%20on%20judgement  a   p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-category"  label In  label   a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org category wildlife-wild-places " rel="category tag" Wildlife  a   p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-tags"  label Tags  label   a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag cat-watch " rel="tag" Cat Watch  a ,  a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag voices-for-biodiversity " rel="tag" Voices for Biodiversity  a   p 
 p Researchers, conservationists, and others share stories, insights and ideas about Our Changing Planet, Wildlife &amp; Wild Spaces, and The Human Journey. More than 50,000 comments have been added to 10,000 posts. Explore the list alongside to dive deeper into some of the most popular categories of the National Geographic Society’s conversation platform Voices.  p 
 p  b Opinions are those of the blogger and or the blogger’s organization, and not necessarily those of the National Geographic Society.  b  Posters of blogs and comments are required to observe National Geographic’s  a href="https:  voices.nationalgeographic.org national-geographic-community-rules " community rules  a  and other  a href="http:  www.nationalgeographic.com community terms " terms of service  a .  p 
 p Questions?  Please contact us:  a href="mailto:blog@ngs.org" blog@ngs.org  a   p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" Bat biologist Priscilla Alpízar believes that conservation is not complete without education, especially when working with animals like bats—which humans often view in a negative light.  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" “There are only a handful of cheetahs left in Ethiopia, and probably no more than 300 in the Horn of Africa,” said Sarah Durant, a senior fellow at @OfficialZSL. https:  t.co h5w1qh88ra #IntlCheetahDay  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" TODAY ONLY: Don't miss this opportunity to have your gift amount matched 2x! Until midnight tonight, all gifts will go twice as far to support our work to protect lions, elephants and other threatened species around the planet. #GivingTuesday br  https:  t.co rIi39FqirJ  p 
