 p This website uses cookies, as explained in our  a href=" cookies " Cookies Policy  a .
						Press the button to hide this message and agree to our terms.
					  p 
 p  strong Today is International Tiger Day and EIA and 44 other NGOs are raising the alarm of increasing tiger poaching and calling for an end to all tiger farming and tiger trade.  strong   p 
 p Debbie Banks, EIA Tiger Campaign Leader, said:  em “It is fantastic to see organisations from across the world unite in this call to action to end tiger farming.  em   p 
 p  em “Acting in unison in 2007, we had a major win for tigers when governments agreed that tiger ‘farming’ should be stopped. But instead of complying with that decision, the governments of China, Thailand, Laos and Vietnam have allowed tiger farming and trade to spiral out of control.  em   p 
 p  em “All eyes now are on governments as they prepare for the 17th Conference of the Parties to CITES in Johannesburg at the end of September. It’s the perfect opportunity for China, Thailand, Laos and Vietnam to announce real action to end demand for tiger parts and products.  em   p 
 p  em “How real is their commitment to save tigers?”  em   p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;" .  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;" .  span   p 
 p  strong Today’s joint NGO statement in full …  strong   p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;" .  span   p 
 p Today on International Tiger Day, we the undersigned 45 non-governmental organisations are urging countries with tiger farms to adopt urgent action to end tiger breeding for commercial purposes and phase out tiger farms.  p 
 p The global wild tiger population is estimated to be fewer than 4,000. These last remaining wild tigers are each threatened by trade for nearly all of their body parts – from skins and bones to teeth and claws – traded by criminals for huge profits. These products are consumed largely as exotic luxury products for demonstrating social status, such as tiger skin rugs for luxury home décor or expensive tiger bone wine. Tiger bone is also consumed as traditional medicine. The main market for tiger products are consumers in China and Vietnam, followed by smaller consumer markets in Myanmar and Laos.  p 
 p There are currently two primary sources for trade in tiger parts and products: wild tigers in 10 range countries that are home to the last remaining wild tigers and captive tigers largely found in four tiger farming countries – China, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam.  p 
 p  strong Tiger farming and trade in captive tiger body parts from and through these countries undermines tiger conservation efforts across Asia.   strong Indeed, trade in captive tiger parts and products stimulates demand for tiger products – be it from wild or captive tigers – and undermines enforcement efforts by making it difficult to know whether seized tiger products come from wild or captive tigers.  p 
 p  strong Tiger farms have expanded rapidly over the past few decades.  strong  In the four tiger farming countries alone there are approximately 7,000-8,000 captive tigers in large tiger farms, zoos and smaller facilities that keep or breed tigers.  p 
 p  strong The wild tiger population has declined by over 95 per cent over the past 100 years; 2016 has also marked a significant upsurge in tiger poaching and trade where in India more tigers were killed in the first five months of 2016 than in the whole of 2015.  strong   p 
 p The tiger range countries where tiger populations are beginning to show signs of recovery have high levels of political commitment, strong laws and enforcement – and no tiger farms. Where tiger farms are present they only serve as an obstacle to recovery. In recent years, China and Thailand have both delivered important new tiger conservation efforts on the ground. Despite this investment, the effects of tiger farms limit the potential gains from such work, as well as damaging those countries’ reputation in the area of species conservation.  p 
 p We commend the recent bold enforcement efforts of Thailand’s Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation (DNP), which in June 2016 seized 137 live tigers, thousands of tiger skin amulets, 70 preserved cubs and other tiger parts from the “Tiger Temple” in Kanchanaburi Province. The DNP has announced that it will investigate other captive tiger facilities implicated in tiger trade. This represents a significant opportunity for Thailand to end all tiger farming within its borders and to play a leadership role in the phase-out of tiger farms in the region.  p 
 p Other countries should also take action to ensure they are not implicated in the trade in captive tiger parts and products. For example, there appears to be a growing trade in tigers and their parts and products from South Africa. The United States also has a large number of captive tigers which may also become vulnerable to exploitation for illegal trade.  p 
 p  strong The world needs to wake up to the alarm bells ringing across the tiger’s range. It is clear that tiger farming and trade in captive tiger parts have done nothing to end the pressure on, and trade in, wild tigers  strong . In September this year, world governments will come together in South Africa to participate in the 17 sup th  sup  Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The CITES conference offers a significant opportunity for governments to adopt and call for urgent implementation of concrete measures to phase out tiger farms.  p 
 p  strong If wild tiger populations are to be recovered and secured, the international community must provide support to end tiger farming and all trade in tiger parts and products from wild and captive tigers. We the undersigned, including those with technical expertise in managing captive tigers, stand ready to provide assistance to achieve the goals of  em Zero Demand  em  for tiger parts and products and  em Zero Poaching   em of tigers.  strong   p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;" .  span   p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p Receive updates about our work straight to your inbox.  p 
 p class="cff-post-text"  span class="cff-text" data-color="" Microplastic pollution revealed ‘absolutely everywhere’ by new research br  br Microplastic pollution spans the world, according to new studies showing contamination in the UK’s lake and rivers, in groundwater in the US and along the Yangtze river in China and the coast of Spain. br  br Humans are known to consume the tiny plastic particles via food and water, but the possible health effects on people and ecosystems have yet to be determined. One study, in Singapore, has found that microplastics can harbour harmful microbes. br  br ------------------------------------------------------------- br * Find out more about the threats of plastic pollution -  a href="https:  eia-international.org our-work ocean plastic-pollution " eia-international.org our-work ocean plastic-pollution   a  br ------------------------------------------------------------- br  br The new analysis in the UK found microplastic pollution in all 10 lakes, rivers and reservoirs sampled ... br  br Source:  a href="https:  www.theguardian.com environment 2019 mar 07 microplastic-pollution-revealed-absolutely-everywhere-by-new-research" www.theguardian.com environment 2019 mar 07 microplastic-pollution-revealed-absolutely-everywhere...  a  br  br #plastics #microplastics #pollution #oceans #rivers   span  span class="cff-expand" ...  a href="#" style="color: #"  span class="cff-more" See More  span  span class="cff-less" See Less  span   a   span   p 
 p class="cff-date"  6 hours ago  span class="cff-date-dot"  ·    span   p 
 p class="cff-media-link"  a href="https:  www.facebook.com environmentalinvestigationagency photos a.204552795647 10161331407805648 ?type=3" target="_blank" style="color: #;"  i style="padding-right: 5px;" class="fa fas fa-picture-o fa-image" aria-hidden="true"   i Photo  a   p 
 p class="cff-post-text"  span class="cff-text" data-color="" International meeting calls for a ban on tiger trade and an end to commercial tiger farming br  br Our Tiger campaigners are encouraged to see recommendations adopted by tiger range countries at the 3rd Stocktaking Conference on Tiger Conservation included a strong message calling for an end to tiger farming and the closure of domestic markets for tiger parts. br  br ... Consumers can access farmed tiger parts through a number of channels, including online via social media. br  br “The online trade scene is a big cat conservationist’s nightmare,” said Debbie Banks, head of our Tiger Campaign. “There’s a seemingly unending stream of images of big cat teeth and claws set in gold and silver with gems to be sold as jewellery, tiger skin rugs and wallets, butchered big cat carcasses, numerous brands of tiger bone wine and even video of a tiger being skinned in someone’s property. It’s horrific.” br  br Read this News Update in full at  a href="https:  eia-international.org international-meeting-calls-ban-tiger-trade-end-commercial-tiger-farming " eia-international.org international-meeting-calls-ban-tiger-trade-end-commercial-tiger-farming   a  br  br #tigers #tigerfarming #illegalwildlifetrade #China   span  span class="cff-expand" ...  a href="#" style="color: #"  span class="cff-more" See More  span  span class="cff-less" See Less  span   a   span   p 
 p class="cff-date"  24 hours ago  span class="cff-date-dot"  ·    span   p 
 p class="cff-media-link"  a href="https:  www.facebook.com environmentalinvestigationagency photos a.204552795647 10161331627025648 ?type=3" target="_blank" style="color: #;"  i style="padding-right: 5px;" class="fa fas fa-picture-o fa-image" aria-hidden="true"   i Photo  a   p 
 p class="cff-post-text"  span class="cff-text" data-color="" EU sued to stop burning trees for energy; it’s not carbon neutral, say plaintiffs br  br Plaintiffs in five European nations and the US filed suit on 4 March in the European General Court in Luxembourg against the European Union.  br  br At issue is the EU’s rapid conversion of coal-burning power plants to burn wood pellets and chips, a process known as bioenergy. Activists see the EU's bioenergy policies as reckless and endangering the climate. br  br ------------------------------------------------------ br * Find out about the work of our Climate campaigns at  a href="https:  eia-international.org our-work climate " eia-international.org our-work climate   a  br ------------------------------------------------------ br  br Bioenergy was classified as carbon neutral under the Kyoto Protocol, meaning that nations don’t need to count wood burning for energy among their Paris Agreement carbon emissions. However, studies over the past 20 years have found that bioenergy, while technically carbon neutral, is not neutral within the urgent timeframe in which the world must cut emissions ... br  br Source:  a href="https:  news.mongabay.com 2019 03 eu-sued-to-stop-burning-trees-for-energy-its-not-carbon-neutral-plaintiffs " news.mongabay.com 2019 03 eu-sued-to-stop-burning-trees-for-energy-its-not-carbon-neutral-plainti...  a  br  br #climate #bioenergy #biofuel #Kyoto   span  span class="cff-expand" ...  a href="#" style="color: #"  span class="cff-more" See More  span  span class="cff-less" See Less  span   a   span   p 
 p class="cff-date"  1 day ago  span class="cff-date-dot"  ·    span   p 
 p class="cff-media-link"  a href="https:  www.facebook.com environmentalinvestigationagency photos a.204552795647 10161331387580648 ?type=3" target="_blank" style="color: #;"  i style="padding-right: 5px;" class="fa fas fa-picture-o fa-image" aria-hidden="true"   i Photo  a   p 
 p You are on EIA's UK site. Please  a href="http:  www.eia-global.org " target="_blank" visit our US site  a  for additional information on our work  p 
 p ©2019 Environmental Investigation Agency Trust Ltd. br 
			 small Charity number: 1145359 |  a href=" about-eia privacy-policy" Privacy policy  a  |  a href=" about-eia cookies-policy" Cookies policy  a   small   p 
