 p The Koala is native to Australia. They are found in many areas around this region. They live in the forest areas where they can easily find lots of food to eat.  p 
 p For their own protection the Koalas often live very high up in the trees. That reduces the amount of problems they have with any potential predators. It also allows them to conserve as much energy as possible in their movements.  p 
 p They seem to do very well in both cool climates and those that have tropical temperatures. For the Koala survival really depends on being able to establish their own territory and to find enough food. They are able to easily adapt to the different temperatures without too much trouble.  p 
 p You may find a large number of Koalas living in one area, but they tend to stay to themselves. Unless a mother is caring for her young, you won’t seem more than one of them per tree. They like to have their own space as it helps them to feel secure.  p 
 p Many people find it surprising to find the Koala also lives in low woodlands and coastal islands. They aren’t too particular as long as they can find enough food. They also need to be able to find that food without too much movement because their food doesn’t offer them high levels of energy.  p 
 p Even though the Koalas live in one tree, they have a home range around them where they circulate for food. The home range can often overlap and that can lead to some tension. Generally, the older Koalas will be the ones that get to stay and the younger ones move on to find other places to eat.  p 
 p Males are more territorial than the females so they will often take over areas where they want to eat first. Don’t underestimate the power of a female though, especially with a young one to care for. If food is scarce she will stand her ground in an effort to be able to successfully get enough for her and her offspring to thrive.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Beautiful Koala in its natural habitat  p 
 p Within the Koala habitat though are many things that threaten their very existence. For example the changes in the climate make it hotter than normal so the leaves of the Eucalyptus aren’t as full as they used to be. They also don’t find as much shade from the hot Australian sun as they used to.  p 
 p Humans continue to take away the remaining territory that they do have. They plow it down to build homes, to put up businesses, and to grow various types of food. There are different types of disease that get introduced to the trees and to the water supply due to humans being in close proximity.  p 
 p Other animals including the fox find it harder for them to get enough to eat. All of these factors continue to result in a smaller habitat for the Koala. As a result they are fighting among themselves for the space that remains.  p 
 p It is estimated that only a small percentage of the habitat that these animals once knew remains. More efforts need to be looked at that will secure what they have left. The Australian government fails to recognize the importance of doing so. They are seen as a huge barrier to protecting the future for the Koala.  p 
 p id="footer-copyright" Copyright 2014 BioExpedition.com  p 
 p  a rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.bioexpedition.com " The Portal of Life on Earth, Biodiversity, Animal Facts  a   p 
 p id="copyright" Designed by  a href="http:  www.elegantthemes.com " title="Premium WordPress Themes" Elegant Themes  a  | Powered by  a href="http:  www.wordpress.org " WordPress  a   p 
