 p class="intro" THESE photos highlight how dire our koala habitat problem is, with the Australian animals to be extinct in NSW by 2050.  p 
 p With a record-breaking 10 joeys born this breeding season, Australian Reptile Park has just the right koala-fications to keep our much-loved marsupial off the endangered list.  p 
 p class="caption" This heartbreaking photo shows koalas stranded on chopped down trees. Picture: WWF-Australia span class="image-source"  em Source:Supplied  em   span   p 
 p class="description" SHOCKING photos of koalas in their diminishing natural habitat have exposed the dire plight of the Australian marsupial.  p 
 p The World Wildlife Fund has released satellite imagery showing a massive spike in the destruction of New South Wales koala forests.  p 
 p A whopping 14 football fields of koala habitat is bulldozed each day. The rate of tree clearing has tripled in the state’s north since the axing of the NSW Native Vegetation Act in August 2017.  p 
 p Following the removal of laws protecting koala forests, more than 5000 hectares of koala habitat has been bulldozed in the NSW districts of Moree and Collarenebri.  p 
 p That translates to a rate of about 14 football fields a day, according to a new report by WWF-Australia and the NSW Nature Conservation Council.  p 
 p And an image of two koalas huddled together on cleared land in NSW makes the problem difficult to ignore.  p 
 p class="caption" Land clearing in the north of NSW has almost tripled. Picture: WWF-Australia span class="image-source"  em Source:Supplied  em   span   p 
 p class="caption" The koala is designated as vulnerable to extinction under commonwealth and state law. Picture: WWF-Australia span class="image-source"  em Source:Supplied  em   span   p 
 p WWF-Australia conservationist Stuart Blanch said the organisation estimated there were likely less than 20,000 koalas left in NSW and at the current rate, they were on track to be extinct in the state by as early as 2050.  p 
 p “We have to stop this excessive tree-clearing if we want to keep koalas alive in the wild for future generations,” Mr Blanch said.  p 
 p “We are releasing this report on National Threatened Species Day to highlight that the destruction of koala habitat is accelerating in NSW and to call on the government to urgently strengthen the laws to ensure koalas and other threatened native animals are given the protections they need.”  p 
 p Nature Conservation Council boss Kate Smolski said the group’s satellite imagery analysis confirmed the dire predictions of the government’s own advisers, who warned the new laws would permit bulldozing of 99 per cent of identified all koala habitat on private land in the state.  p 
 p class="caption" Habitat for 247 native species may have been destroyed in 2017-18, including habitat for nine species of National Environmental Significance. Picture: WWF-Australia span class="image-source"  em Source:Supplied  em   span   p 
 p class="caption" The Moree-Collarenebri region is already extensively cleared with only 6 per cent of the study area having forest remaining, while 11 per cent is sparse woodlands. Picture: WWF-Australia span class="image-source"  em Source:Supplied  em   span   p 
 p “The area where this habitat destruction has occurred is one of the most heavily cleared in the state, with only 6 per cent of forest remaining while an additional 11 per cent was in sparse woodlands,” Ms Smolski said.  p 
 p “The NSW Government is responsible for opening the floodgates to the destruction of koala forests and woodlands on a scale we have not seen for more than 20 years.  p 
 p “This report looks at a fraction of the state, so we fear this spike in deforestation in the north is just the tip of the iceberg.”  p 
 p The report concludes that repeal of the NSW Native Vegetation Act in August 2017 was likely the major reason behind the dramatic surge in forest and woodland destruction in this known clearing hotspot.  p 
 p WWF-Australia and the Nature Conservation Council have launched petitions today to call on both sides of government to take action to protect koalas in NSW for future generations.  p 
 p class="disclaimer-text"  strong A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING:  strong  We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. a href="https:  preferences.news.com.au ##collect"  Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.  a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" News Pty Limited Copyright © 2019. All times AEDT (GMT +11).  p 
 p class="powered-by-wordpress" Powered by  a href="https:  vip.wordpress.com " rel="nofollow" WordPress.com VIP  a   p 
 p News.com.au has recently strengthened the security on the website. Think of it like getting a guard dog in the backyard.  p 
 p The thing is.. we need you to reset your password so that it meets the requirements of our new security standards.  p 
 p class="modal-below-hr" If you have received an email from us and have already reset your password, please continue to  a id="modal-log-in" href="https:  myprofile.news.com.au" log in  a   p 
