 p The pristine shores, lush rainforests, and shallow waters of  a href="https:  phillipislandtour.com.au blog phillip-island-discover-the-diverse-beauty-of-australia-s-southern-islands " target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-wpel-link="internal" Phillip Island  a  make it the perfect place for a range of native and majestic animal species. Here, visitors can see some of Australia’s most iconic critters up close and personal in the smattering of conservation efforts that are taking place around the island.  p 
 p Set just an hour and a half from Melbourne, the Koala Conservation Centre on Phillip Island gives visitors the chance to marvel at cute koalas in their natural habitat. These small bear-like creatures are some of Australia’s most popular animals, and the centre provides visitors with an insight into their fascinating behaviour, history, and habitat.  p 
 p At the Centre itself, there is plenty for people to get stuck into. Made up predominantly of lush eucalypt woodland, the koalas are free to roam around as they would in the wild. To help visitors get a better vantage point, there are a number of interwoven treetop boardwalks in the canopies so you can get up close and personal without interfering with the koala’s space.  p 
 p From the boardwalk, you can also gaze out at the beautiful wetland landscape that surrounds the centre and spot other native species as you go.  p 
 p Perhaps the best part of the Koala Conservation Centre is the yearly population of koala joeys. If you visit at the right time, you can watch the little ones as they make their first steps into the world outside of their mother’s pouch, and watch as they learn to climb, find food, and get to know each other. Whatever you do, don’t forget your camera!  p 
 p The Koala Conservation Centre is an ecotourism attraction and has played a key role in saving the population of koalas on Phillip Island as well as the natural bush environment that characterises the region.  p 
 p There is now a special koala breeding program in place here, as conservation efforts ramp up to keep the population of these special creatures on the rise.  p 
 p As well as viewing the koalas in their natural habitat, visitors also have the opportunity to take part in a Koala Eco-Explorer Tour, which is led by a knowledgeable guide who shares behind-the-scenes information about Australia’s most iconic animal.  p 
 p Elsewhere, the Centre lets visitors see the creatures in the natural habitat. Unlike a zoo, the koalas here live in the wild, making their homes in eucalypt forests and the surrounding wetlands. There are also plenty of other animals to spot here as well, from wallabies and possums, to echidnas and snakes.  p 
 p To visit Koala Conservation Centre, check out our  a href="https:  phillipislandtour.com.au tours phillip-island-penguin-parade-large-coach-tour " target="_blank" rel="noopener" data-wpel-link="internal" Phillip Island Tour on Large Coach  a .  p 
 p class="mobil-foter"  a href="tel:1300661225" data-wpel-link="internal" 1300 661 225  a  br  br Suite 409, Level 4, 2 Queen Street,  Melbourne, VIC 3000
  p 
