 p class="lead" The koala is related to the kangaroo and the wombat. The koala is a marsupial mammal.  br  
                        The reason the koala is called a koala bear is because the koala looks like a teddy bear.  br  br  
                        The koala's scientific name is Phasclarctos Cinereus. br  br  
                        Now there are only 2,000 to 8,000 koalas in the 
wild! Although not officially classified as endangered, the population 
of Australian koalas has dropped by 90% in less than a decade.  
                        This is due to the destruction of the koala's 
natural habitat,  br  
                        a narrow crescent on the eastern coast of Australia. br   p 
 p  Logging, agriculture and urban development have not only reduced the
 area available to them, but added other dangers. The koala's habitat 
has been criss crossed by roads, br  
                        resulting in many road kills and attacks by neighboring pet dogs are frequent.  br  
                      Disease, too, has taken its toll on the koala. br   p 
 p Koalas fur is different in different parts of Australia. In the southern
 parts of Australia it is longer and shaggier than in the north in order
 to keep them warm in the cold southern winters. The closest relative of
 the koala is the wombat. They both have pouches which open towards the 
rear. This is fine for the wombat, but koalas need strong muscles 
ringing the pouch to keep the young one from falling out.   p 
 p class="lead" The koala's nickname is a Native Bear.  br  
                        The koala is a marsupial mammal.  br  
                        They are warm-blooded.  br  
                        The koala's young is called a cub.  br  
                        The koala's young are born alive.  br  
                        Koalas drink milk from the mother.  br  
                        The koala breaths oxygen from air.  br  
                        The koala might look cuddly but the koala has very sharp teeth and very sharp claws.  br  
                        The koalas have white on the underside and gray on the rest of its body. br  
                        The koala has big ears and a big nose.  br  
                        The mother has a pouch.  br  
                        The koala has very thick fur.  br  
                        The adult koala generally grows to 25 - 30 inches long.  br  
                        The koala is very small when it's just born.  br  
                        After 1 month the cub is 1 cm. long. br  
                        The koala weighs 15 to 30 pounds.  br  
                        One cub is born at a time. br  
                        The koala cub stays in the mother's pouch for 5 months.  br  
                        The koala cub is blind when it's born.  br  
                        Koalas breed in the summer.  br  
                        Koalas live for 20 or more years.  br  
                        The koala can run as fast as a rabbit.  br  
                        Koalas sleep for up to 19 hours.  br  
                        Koalas live on the East coast of Australia.  br  
                        They live and sleep in the eucalyptus trees. 
                      It's hot, light and dry here.                         br   p 
 p class="lead" The koala's territory is getting smaller because people are cutting down
 trees and making farms on them. Koalas can only live in one place in 
the world, Australia. 
                              The koala only eats Eucalyptus leaves and 
it eats so many leaves, it smells like the leaves. br  
The koala hops from tree to tree and climbs the trees to get the leaves. 
The koala will eat 2.5 pounds of food a day. br  
It uses its claws to get the branches and get the leaves.  br  
The koala used to be endangered because 
people would kill the koala for its fur.  br   p 
 p class="lead" Over 2 million koalas were killed between 1908 and 1927. Occasionally 
koalas are taken by Goannas, Eagles, and Owls. Humans are koala's worst 
enemies. Dingoes will kill the koala. The koala does not have very many 
enemies. Koala young are hunted by large birds of prey. Their Behavior 
is clumsy but they are strong swimmers.  br  
                        They live in loose-knit groups if enough suitable trees are present, but only one animal per tree.  br  br  
                      Males express territoriality during the breeding 
season, bellowing and grasping the base of a tree while rubbing their 
chest against it, thus leaving a scent marking with their chest gland. 
Females bellow as well during this time but are not territorial.  br   p 
 p The koala's closest living relative is the wombat, which is a stationary
 burrower rather than a nomadic arboreal like the koala. 
                              One clue to this relationship is the 
common design of the pouch, which opens to the rear in both animals.  br   p 
 p class="lead" Mating occurs Nov-Feb in the south, Sep-Jan further north. Gestation 
about 35 days; single young weigh about 1 5 oz. and are about 3 4 inches
 long. Newborn crawls from cloaca to pouch and attaches to a nipple to 
complete its development. The koala Leaves the pouch first at about 5.5 
months, permanently at about 8 months. The young joey then clings to 
it's mother's back or stomach, sticking it's head into the pouch to 
feed. During weaning the joey eats partially-digested eucalyptus that 
merges from mother's cloaca,  br  
                        thus receiving bacteria needed for digestion as well as food. br  br  
                        Life span 12+ yrs (wild) 16+ yrs (captivity).The
 largest koalas weigh over 10 kg and are found in Victoria while the 
smallest live in North Queensland and weigh only 5.5 kg. Koalas are 
found between these two areas, but only where enough suitable trees have
 been left. br  
                        Koalas also communicate with each other by 
making a noise like a snore and then a belch, known as a "bellow".  br  
                        Koalas usually only have one cub per year. Older females will usually have one every two years. br  br  
                        Koala babies are known by several names. "pouch young", "back young", "joeys" and "cubs". br  
                      When koalas are born they are only 2 centimeters long, which is about the same as a jellybean.  br   p 
 p Reproduced with permission from the Lonely Planet website  a href="https:  www.lonleyplanet.com " target="_new" www.lonelyplanet.com  a  ©  2010 Lonely Planet. Image surfsidebackpackers.com.au  p 
 p class="lead" Extra thick fur, especially on the neck and shoulders, helps protect the koala from even the worst weather. br  
                                Koalas do not build nests. br  
Pear-shaped body provides stability while the koala sits in trees. br  
Opposable thumbs and toes allow for a tight grip when climbing. br  
Rough pads on undersurface of hands and feet increase traction while the koala is climbing. br   p 
 p Rough pads on undersurface of hands and feet increase traction while the koala is climbing. br  
                        Large nose with sensitive hairs enables the 
koala to detect differences in smell between different eucalyptus 
leaves, ensuring that its diet consists of only the best of the bunch. 
                        Cheek pouches allow animal to store food not yet
 chewed while moving to a safer or more protected location.
                        The Koala cools itself by licking its arms and 
stretching out as it rests in the trees (koalas have no sweat glands).  br   p 
 p The biggest problem for koalas is that their bushland (or "habitat") is being cut down to make way for houses.  br  
                      Koalas are protected by law but their homes and food aren't. br   p 
 p class="lead" He was hit by a car and nearly died, but he survived.  p 
 p Luckily Jimmy the koala was rescued and taken to a wildlife hospital. br Order Jimmy today, worldwide delivery is free.  p 
 p Have a closer look at all of our adorable Aussie koala, kangaroo and wombat plush toys. Guaranteed to last a lifetime and completely non-allergenic.   p 
 p Visit  a href="https:  www.facebook.com koalaexpress.com.au" target="NEW" Jimmy The Koala   a   p 
 p Send family and friends a gorgeous, original Australian made koala, kangaroo or wombat plush toy with free shipping worldwide. Include your own personal message and you're 
sure to make someone's day. Or perhaps, spoil yourself. Delivered 
to the door.  p 
 p Welcome to Koala Express. The cutest 
koala, kangaroo and wombat plush toys. By purchasing one of our cuddly 
Australian made gifts you are helping preserve the natural habitat of 
the Australian koala. We've been doing it since 2001. Out latest 
donation was to the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland.  p 
 p class="lead" Add your own personal gift message and it will be included on a beautiful welcoming card.  p 
 p class="pull-left small" © Koala Express.  All Rights Reserved.  p 
 p class="pull-right small" First listed with google in 2001.   p 
