 p id="breadcrumbs"  span  span  a href="https:  www.sbzoo.org " Home  a  »  span  a href="https:  www.sbzoo.org ?page_id=1338" Animals – Old  a  »  span class="breadcrumb_last" Koala  span   span   span   span   p 
 p Koalas sit, rest, or sleep in trees for up to 20 hours a day. They do this to conserve energy, as it takes a lot of work and a long time to digest their leafy food. Koalas can eat up to 1.5 pounds of food a day, almost exclusively the leaves of different kinds of eucalyptus trees. Adult males (like Chuckles and Thackory) weigh between 6 and 12 pounds. That’s like eating 13 to 25 percent of their body weight – in just leaves – in just one day!  p 
 p  span class="open-quote" ”  span Guests often ask ‘why can’t I hold Chuckles or Thackory?’ Some koalas raised by humans are used to being held, especially in Australia where orphaned or rehabilitated wild koalas can be held. But most koalas, especially those in U.S. zoos, are not trained to be held. It is dangerous for anyone other than a trained zoo professional to try to hold them, as they have sharp claws and can bite.  p 
 p Edmund and Thackory are in Santa Barbara as adorable ambassadors from the “Land Down Under.” The quintessential Aussie animal, wild koalas are found nowhere else in the world. But their island continent now faces major challenges that threaten not only koalas but many other animal and plant species native to Australia. Habitat destruction and fragmentation, prolonged drought and other extreme weather events, and predation by feral cats and dogs are among them. It’s not just on land. Australia’s oceans, including the Great Barrier Reef, also face the impacts of sea level rise, ocean warming, and increasing seawater acidity, among others.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" Take a tour of the different varieties of eucalyptus grown by the  a href="https:  www.australianoutbackplants.com animal-nutrition-zoo-feed " Australian Outback Plantation  a  in Arizona, where the Zoo gets food for koalas.  p 
 p The koala itself is protected throughout Australia, but its habitat is not. Many conservation groups are pushing to have koalas listed as “endangered” to provide more protection both for the species and its habitat. The  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 16892 0" IUCN Red List  a  lists them as “vulnerable.”  p 
 p Many of the Zoo’s animals, like gorillas and giraffes, eat several pounds of plant material, or  em browse  em , every day. The animals eat branches and leaves from specific trees and shrubs, such as bamboo and grapevines. See if your green waste will make a good meal at  a href="https:  www.sbzoo.org browse " sbzoo.org browse  a .  p 
 p 500 Ninos Drive, Santa Barbara, CA 93103 |  a href="https:  www.sbzoo.org more " View Map  a  br  (805) 962-5339 main | (805) 962-6310 info line |  a href="mailto:zooinfo@sbzoo.org" Email Us  a   p 
 p Hours are 10 AM – 5 PM br  10 AM – 3:30 PM on Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, and Christmas. br   em The Zoo closes early for some special events.  em   p 
 p © 2019 Santa Barbara Zoo. 
 All Rights Reserved. |  a href=" more accessibility-statement " Accessibility Statement  a       a href=" privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a   p 
 p class="bottom-text" data-has-desktop-social="true" SANTA BARBARA ZOO br  500 Ninos Drive, Santa Barbara, CA 93103  p 
