 p  strong  span id="ref26009"   span Koala  strong ,  ( em Phascolarctos cinereus  em ), also called  strong koala bear  strong ,  tree-dwelling  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal marsupial" class="md-crosslink" marsupial  a  of coastal eastern  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Australia" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Australia  a  classified in the family Phascolarctidae (suborder Vombatiformes).  p 
 p The koala is about 60 to 85 cm (24 to 33 inches) long and weighs up to 14 kg (31 pounds) in the southern part of its range ( a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Victoria-state-Australia" class="md-crosslink" Victoria  a ) but only about half that in subtropical  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Queensland-state-Australia" class="md-crosslink" Queensland  a  to the north. Virtually tailless, the body is stout and gray, with a pale yellow or cream-coloured chest and mottling on the rump. The broad face has a wide, rounded, leathery nose, small yellow eyes, and big fluffy ears. The feet are strong and clawed; the two inner digits of the front feet and the innermost digit of the hind feet are opposable for grasping. Owing to the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal animal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" animal’s  a  superficial resemblance to a small  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal bear" class="md-crosslink autoxref" bear  a , the koala is sometimes called,  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary albeit" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="albeit" albeit  a  erroneously, the  em koala bear  em .  p 
 p The koala feeds very selectively on the leaves of certain  span id="ref1252352"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com plant Eucalyptus" class="md-crosslink" eucalyptus  a   a href="https:  www.britannica.com plant tree" class="md-crosslink" trees  a . Generally solitary, individuals move within a home range of more than a dozen trees, one of which is favoured over the others. If koalas become too numerous in a restricted area, they defoliate preferred food trees and, unable to subsist on even closely related species, decline rapidly. To aid in digesting as much as 1.3 kg (3 pounds) of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science leaf-plant-anatomy" class="md-crosslink" leaves  a  daily, the koala has an intestinal  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science marsupium" class="md-crosslink autoxref" pouch  a  ( a href="https:  www.britannica.com science cecum" class="md-crosslink" cecum  a ) about 2 metres (7 feet) long, where symbiotic  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science bacteria" class="md-crosslink autoxref" bacteria  a  degrade the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science tannin" class="md-crosslink" tannins  a  and other toxic and complex substances abundant in eucalyptus. This diet is relatively poor in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science nutrient" class="md-crosslink" nutrients  a  and provides the koala little spare energy, so the animal spends long hours simply sitting or sleeping in tree forks, exposed to the elements but insulated by thick fur. Although placid most of the time, koalas produce loud, hollow grunts.  p 
 p The koala is the only member of the family  span id="ref26010"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Phascolarctidae" class="md-crosslink" Phascolarctidae  a . Unlike those of other arboreal marsupials, its pouch opens rearward. Births are single, occurring after a  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science gestation" class="md-crosslink autoxref" gestation  a  of 34 to 36 days. The youngster (called a joey) first puts its head out of the pouch at about five months of age. For up to six weeks, it is weaned on a soupy predigested eucalyptus called pap that is lapped directly from the mother’s anus. Pap is thought to be derived from the cecum. After weaning, the joey emerges completely from the pouch and clings to the mother’s back until it is nearly a year old. A koala can live to about 15 years of age in the wild, somewhat longer in captivity.  p 
 p Formerly killed in huge numbers for their fur, especially during the 1920s and ’30s, koalas dwindled in number from several million to a few hundred thousand. In the southern part of their range, they became practically  span id="ref828185"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science extinction-biology" class="md-crosslink" extinct  a  except for a single  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science population-biology-and-anthropology" class="md-crosslink autoxref" population  a  in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Gippsland" class="md-crosslink" Gippsland  a , Victoria. Some were translocated onto small offshore islands, especially  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Phillip-Island" class="md-crosslink" Phillip Island  a , where they did so well that these koalas were used to restock much of the original range in Victoria and southern  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place New-South-Wales" class="md-crosslink autoxref" New South Wales  a . Though once again widespread, koala populations are now  span id="ref1252353"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science habitat-loss" class="md-crosslink" scattered  a  and separated by urban areas and farmland, which makes them locally  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary vulnerable" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="vulnerable" vulnerable  a  to extinction. Another problem is the infection of many populations with  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science Chlamydia-microorganism" class="md-crosslink"  em Chlamydia  em   a , which makes the females infertile.  p 
 p Despite the koala’s having been considered a species of least concern since 1996 by the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic International-Union-for-Conservation-of-Nature" class="md-crosslink" International Union for Conservation of Nature  a  (IUCN), the Australian government added the koala to the country’s threatened species list in 2012.  p 
 p 
            We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
          p 
 p 
            Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
          p 
 p Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article.  p 
 p Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed.  p 
 p There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.  p 
 p Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  p 
