 p  a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org " Koala Bears  a  br 
       a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org articles" Articles  a  br 
         a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org behavior.html" Behavior  a  br 
         a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org characteristics.html" Characteristics  a  br 
         a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org conservation.html" Conservation  a  br 
         a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org diet-food.html" Diet  a  br 
           a href="http:  www.koala-bears.org habitat.html" Habitat  a   p 
 p DISTRIBUTION:  br 
           br 
           img src=" images koala-bears-habitat-distribution.jpg" alt="Koala Bears Habitat" width="205" height="163"   p 
 p Where do  the koalas live? Koalas live in the eucalyptus woodlands of the eastern  side of Australia.   They live in forest of eucalyptus (yoo-Kuh  – LIP – tuss) trees.   p 
 p They inhabit the large Eastern part of Australia and  can be found in greater numbers in the Northeast and Southeast of this vast  territory,  and only in trees, in fact they live only in certain types of trees, called  eucalyptus trees, where they eat the leaves.  br 
	    Their distribution has a lot to do with the type of  eucalyptus that exists in each area.   p 
 p Koalas are highly specialized to survive only in one type of habitat; in  woodland with plenty of eucalyptus trees, also known as gum trees. Places like  that provide the koala with food, water, safety from ground predators, and all  other needs. Koalas do not have dens, tree- holes, or nests. They sleep, eat,  and breed on the branches.  p 
 p Unlike most mammals, koalas never make dens or permanent homes. They do  have home territories, but they will not stay in one particular tree. br 
	    br 
	    The koala is an arboreal animal. Arboreal means “living in trees”. Koalas  live, eat, and sleep in the top branches of eucalyptus trees, also known as gum  trees. br 
	    Males koalas have a special area on their chest that leaves a scent. They  rub their chests on their “home trees” to leave their scent and mark the trees  as their own.  p 
 p    p 
 p   br 
           img src=" images red-river-gum-trees.jpg" alt="Red River gum trees" width="480" height="239"   br 
        Red River gum trees, one of the species of eucalyptus  that provide koalas with both food and shelter.  p 
 p    p 
 p  img src=" images australia-map.jpg" alt="Koalas eastern australia map" width="312" height="265"  br 
          The reddish brown area  indicates where koalas live along the eastern coast of Australia  p 
 p Koalas live in along, narrow strip of eastern Australia, near the coast of the Pacific Ocean. This area includes several different  climates, and there are some differences among the koalas that make their homes  there.  The three kinds of koalas; Victoria koala, the New South Wales  koala, and the Queensland  koala, are named after the states in which they live.  p 
 p  strong Victoria koala   strong   p 
 p  img src=" images victoria-koala.jpg" alt="victoria koala" width="103" height="107"   br 
	    Lives in the southern part of Australia,  where the climate is cool. It is the largest of the three types of koalas.  p 
 p  strong Queensland koala  strong  br 
           u  img src=" images Queensland-koala.jpg" alt="Queensland koala" width="103" height="115"   u  br 
	    The Queensland  koala –Lives in the northern part of Australia. The weather in Queensland is very hot.  This koala’s coat is lightweight and pale in color.  p 
 p  strong New South    Wales koala  strong  br 
	     img src=" images New-South-Wales-koala.jpg" alt="New South Wales koala" width="114" height="80"  br 
	    The New    South Wales koala was the first to be seen by Western  explores. This koala is most familiar to people in Europe and North   America.  p 
 p * Home ranges of koala often overlap. A male koala  is more active than a female, and usually he has a  bigger home range. Indeed, it may include the ranges of three or four females.  But these neighbors rarely meet each other. Koalas are solitary animals.  They hear, see, and smell others nearby and  avoid them. They live peacefully like this throughout most of the year.  p 
 p Fossil remains of koalas have been found in Western Australia, central South   Australia, and northwest Queensland.  These are areas where koalas are unable to live today, because the climate is  too dry. Although we do not know the exact distribution of koalas before the  Europeans arrived, we do know that that eucalyptus forests once covered much of  eastern Australia.  These forests would have provided large areas of ideal habitat for koalas.  There is no doubt that these animals used to live over a much greater part of Australia than  they do today.  p 
 p Huge areas  of koala habitat have now been cleared away. Here trees have been cut down to  make way for industry and homes south of Sidney.  You can see the remaining woodland on these hills in the distance.  p 
