 p Photo: Alyson Boyer  p 
 p Koalas are marsupials that live in eucalypt forests in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.   p 
 p Koalas are fussy eaters, eating only a few types of eucalypt leaves. They eat up to one kilogram of leaves each day. Their diet consists mainly of a certain
    type of eucalyptus leaf which is poisonous to other animals. From a young age, Koala joeys are fed a form of fecal matter called pap that helps them
    to digest the leaves.  p 
 p You could think that eucalypt leaves make Koalas drunk, because they seem so dozy. This is a myth - Koala food provides little energy, so they rest through
    the day, saving their energy to look for food at night.   p 
 p They get most of the water they need from their food or from dew or rainwater on leaves.   p 
 p Koalas can live up to 18 years. They breed once a year, usually between September and March.   p 
 p Once the joeys emerge from the pouches of their mothers, the mother communicates to her young with soft clicking, squeaking and gentle humming sounds.  p 
 p Koalas live in long-term communities and are territorial. They will live their entire lives in the same place unless they're forced to move on. Relocated
    Koalas adapt very poorly to new environments and the majority do not survive, which is why injured Koalas that have been looked after by a wildlife
    carer can only be returned to their home territory once well or housed in a sanctuary.   p 
 p Within a community of Koalas their home range needs to have suitable areas of forest, ideally eucalypt, which is large enough to support a healthy Koala
    population and allow expansion for their maturing young.   p 
 p The home range needs 'home trees' and 'food trees'. A Koala community will only develop and thrive if the habitat is just right. They need to find a space
    in the forest that has good rainfall, suitable soil and their favourite gum leaves.  p 
 p In Australia, there are over 600 types of eucalypt trees but Koalas will only eat a few species.   p 
 p The breeding season starts in October, during which male Koalas make loud grunting noises to attract potential mates. They also warn off potential rival
    males by making a loud gurgling noise in their throats which can be heard from over 800 metres away. Male Koalas also attract females by letting off
    a powerful, musky odour that comes from a mixture of their urine and scent glands that they rub on the trees as they climb.   p 
 p Like many of our native animals, Koala populations are under threat from loss of habitat.   p 
 p Over 80% of Koalas' habitats are now on private land and with our houses getting closer to Koalas 'home range' there is a higher risk of dog attacks and
    road accidents. By taking simple measures like keeping your pets inside at night, planting and maintaining the Koalas favourite eucalypt trees and
    being more aware on the road, you can help Koalas survive.   p 
 p  strong Did you know?  strong     p 
 p  By helping to maintain and plant new eucalyptus trees in and around the forests Koalas live in, you will be encouraging the survival of the Koala population
    by helping create a safe and sustainable environment for them to live in.  p 
 p  strong Tip  strong    p 
 p The Koala gets its name from the Aboriginal word meaning "no drink" because it receives over 90% of its hydration from the eucalyptus leaves. Koalas will
    only drink when there isn't enough moisture in the leaves, like during a drought.  p 
 p  strong Koalas love:  strong    p 
 p Native trees as they are the safest place for a Koala. Try to keep large trees in your backyard and plant replacements.  p 
 p Large areas with lots of trees, so that they can move safely between trees.  p 
 p Quiet time for sleeping during the day to save their energy.  p 
 p  strong But they don't like:  strong 
     br 
  p 
 p Dogs which frighten or even attack them if allowed to roam free, or if the Koala enters the dog's backyard.  p 
 p Garden pesticides, which can harm Koalas if they absorb chemicals through their paws or from the leaves they eat.  p 
 p Fast traffic as Koalas take their time as they cross the road, so drive slowly in Koala areas.  p 
 p  strong Be a Buddy to Koalas  strong    p 
 p  strong Try to:  strong    p 
 p keep your dog indoors at night and closely supervised when in Koala habitat.  p 
 p find out what type of eucalypt trees Koalas like in your area and plant some in your backyard.  p 
 p plant other types of trees along fence lines and creeks to give your Koalas travel corridors safe from cars and dogs.  p 
 p slow down when driving in Koala areas at night.  p 
 p keep the number of your local Koala rescue group in your car.  p 
 p  strong Avoid:  strong    p 
 p using pesticides in Koala areas.  p 
 p cutting down trees that may be a home to and a food source for Koalas.  p 
 p  strong Don't be surprised if:  strong    p 
 p you see a Koala trying to cross a road that winds through the bush. They only want to get to a nearby area to find food or a tree to rest in. Slow down
    when driving near trees and densely vegetated areas as animals could be about.  p 
 p  strong A few more Koala facts  strong    p 
 p The name Koala is thought to come from an Aboriginal word meaning 'no drink animal'.   p 
 p Koalas are commonly called 'Koala bears', but they are marsupials. The closest living relative to the Koala is the wombat.  p 
 p Newborn Koalas are so tiny they could fit on your thumbnail. Koala joeys stay in their mother's pouch for about seven months.  p 
 p The body of a Koala is made for climbing trees. They have rough paw pads with sharp claws which help them grip tree trunks and branches.  p 
 p 

Flying-foxes, also known as Bats, Fruit Bats or Megabats, mainly live in forests in coastal areas of northern and eastern Australia. Four species of Flying-fox live in Australia: the Grey-headed Flying-fox, the Little Red Flying-fox, the Black Flying-fox and the Spectacled Flying-fox.  

Flyin..  p 
 p  a href=" fact-sheets flying-fox" class="button" READ MORE  a   p 
 p 

Koalas might look like a bear and have the nickname 'Koala bear', but they are marsupials.  

The closest living relative to the Koala is the wombat. 

Newborn Koalas are so little they could fit on your thumbnail. Koala joeys stay in their mothers’ pouch for about seven months. 

Koalas a..  p 
 p  a href=" fact-sheets koala" class="button" READ MORE  a   p 
 p 

Possums live in the trees and occasionally come down to the ground to look for food. Brushtail Possums live in tree hollows and Ringtail Possums in the south of Australia build a nest out of sticks. Both kinds of possum may live in our roof if they can’t find suitable homes in trees. 

Possums..  p 
 p  a href=" fact-sheets possums" class="button" READ MORE  a   p 
 p ”I am a proud Backyard Buddy, doing my bit for our wonderful wildlife, I encourage you to get involved!“  p 
 p Photo: OEH  p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14" Backyard Buddies is an initiative of The Foundation for National Parks &amp; Wildlife (ABN 90 107 744 771), a registered charity with the ACNC,
                with Deductible Gift Recipient (DGR) status. Donations over $2 are tax-deductible and we thank you for your support.   p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14"  a href=" legals terms-and-conditions" Terms &amp; Conditions  a  |   a href=" legals privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a  |   a href=" legals corporate-governance" title="Corporate Governance" Corporate Governance  a    p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14" Australia is a land like no other, with about one million different native species. More than 80 per cent of the country’s flowering plants,
                mammals, reptiles and frogs are unique to Australia, along with most of its freshwater fish and almost half of its birds.   p 
