 p id="breadcrumb__label" class="visuallyhidden" You are here:  p 
 p The koala is arguably one of Australia's best known and most appealing native animals. The scientific name of Phascolarctos cinereus means leather pouch and a bear, ashen grey in colour. Koalas are not however bears, they are large herbivorous marsupials, well adapted to life in trees.  p 
 p The koala is arguably one of Australia's best known and most appealing native animals. The scientific name of Phascolarctos cinereus means leather pouch and a bear, ashen grey in colour. Koalas are not however bears, they are large herbivorous marsupials, well adapted to life in trees.  p 
 p In Queensland koalas weigh between 5-10 kg and have short pale grey fur. Koalas in southern parts of Australia are much larger and have darker thicker fur. Koalas are solitary animals and have strong home ranges which may overlap. Breeding generally occurs between late winter and late summer, and young are usually born between September and May. Females usually give birth every two years, and the young stay with their mother for the first 12 months.  p 
 p Koalas generally move slowly and deliberately, but are able to move quickly when threatened. Koalas are nocturnal and spend only a few hours a day feeding. They are more active at night, changing trees two or three times. Koalas feed almost exclusively on Eucalyptus leaves. In south-east Queensland, their preferred tree species for feeding and shelter are from the genera Eucalyptus, Corymbia, Angophora, Lophostemon, Melaleuca and Leptospermum.  p 
 p Koalas inhabit a large area of eastern Australia, from the Atherton Tablelands in north Queensland, through New South Wales and Victoria, to parts of South Australia. In Queensland, the greatest concentration of koalas is in south-east Queensland, particularly the region of the Koala Coast.  p 
 p Koalas are found in a range of habitats including open forests and woodland. They can also live in suburban areas provided safe habitat is available. Alluvial floodplains are known to provide the most fertile koala habitat areas. In Logan, much of this area has been cleared in the past for agriculture.  p 
 p The koala is currently listed as 'regionally vulnerable' for the South-east Queensland Bioregion under Queensland's  em Nature Conservation Act 1992  em , and 'vulnerable' in Queensland under the Australian Government's  em Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999  em . The major threats to the survival of the koala are habitat loss, vehicle strikes and dogs. Koalas are also susceptible to serious diseases such as Chlamydia and Koala Retrovirus, which are common in Queensland populations.  p 
 p For more information on koalas in Logan and what Council is doing, see the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0006 391236 2016-Logans-Koala-Conservation-Strategy_web.pdf" City of Logan Koala Conservation Strategic Plan 2013-2023  (PDF 1533 KB)  a .  p 
 p For more information on koala ecology, see the  a href="http:  www.ehp.qld.gov.au wildlife koalas koala-ecology.html" target="_blank" Koala Ecology webpage  a  from DEHP.  p 
 p In 2014, Council engaged the services of  a title="Koala Detection Dog" href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com koala-detection-dog.html" target="_blank" Maya  a , a professionally-trained koala scat detection dog. She searched a number of Council parks where there was little or no information about koala presence.  p 
 p In 2015, further koala presence surveys were conducted by another professionally-trained koala scat detection dog,  a title="OWAD Environment Koala Detection Dogs" href="http:  www.owad.com.au 21 Koala-Detection-Dogs " target="_blank" Taz  a . These surveys were focussed on the western area of Logan and included surveys on private properties.  p 
 p To see where koala scats were found in 2014 and 2015, please open the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0009 357525 Koala_Presence_Logan_2014and2015_Scat_Detection_Dog_map.pdf" Koala Presence Logan 2014 and 2015 Scat Detection Dog Map  (PDF 874 KB)  a .  p 
 p Council also collects data on koala sightings made by community members through our  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste wildlife report-wildlife-sightings-online" Report Your Wildlife Sightings  a  page, and other sources such as State Government records.  p 
 p Please open the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0005 95513 Koala_Sightings_Map_July_2013.pdf" Koala Sightings Map (PDF 4264 KB)  a  to see the community sightings.  p 
 p The majority of koala sightings made by community members are in the eastern suburbs of the city such as Daisy Hill, Shailer Park, Springwood, and Cornubia. The large number of sightings in this part of the city most likely corresponds to the fact that this area is more densely populated and therefore encounters with koalas are more common than the less populated parts of the city.  p 
 p Based on community sightings data, and the results of the koala presence surveys using Maya and Taz, other areas where koalas are found in Logan include:  p 
 p It is very important for community members to continue to  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste wildlife report-wildlife-sightings-online" report any koala sightings  a , dead or alive, as this vital information will contribute towards conservation planning to ensure the long-term recovery of the koala in Logan.  p 
 p Here in Logan we are fortunate enough to have one of our most famous Australians - the koala - living in many parts of the city. As residents, we can all become more aware of koalas and consider what actions we might take to reduce threats such as dog attacks, car strikes, and restriction of habitat.  p 
 p Dog attacks contribute to a significant number of koala deaths and injuries. Many dogs are curious by nature and even if they do not have a tendency to chase and catch wildlife, just pawing or mouthing a koala can cause serious injuries as koalas have thin skin. Read the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0008 276713 30183-living-with-wildlife-Koala-misconceptions-v1.pdf" common misconceptions  (PDF 262 KB)  a  about koalas and dogs.  p 
 p There are a number of things you can do to ensure that koalas are kept safe from your dog:  p 
 p For further details and great ideas for dogs, see the following factsheets from the RSPCA Animal Training and Behaviour Centre:  p 
 p For more details on dog ownership and koalas, see the Logan City Council  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0009 77931 Koalas-and-dogs-Fact-Sheet.pdf" Living with Dogs and Koalas environmental factsheet  (PDF 345 KB)  a  or the  a href="http:  www.ehp.qld.gov.au wildlife koalas pdf koalas-and-dogs.pdf" target="_blank" Koala and Dogs factsheet  a  from DEHP.  p 
 p Not only is hitting an animal a distressing experience for a driver, car strikes kill or injure many koalas and other wildlife each year.  img style="margin: 10px;" alt="Road kill koala" src="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets image 0004 120892 raod-kill-koala-small.jpg" width="200" height="267" align="right"   p 
 p For more information see the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0006 91491 koalas-and-cars-factsheet.pdf" Koalas and Cars factsheet  (PDF 742 KB)  a  from DEHP.  p 
 p Fences can literally be a real barrier to koalas and other wildlife trying to move between properties. Koalas have quite strong home ranges and usually like to visit certain trees within their range - you might be lucky and have one of these favoured trees growing in your backyard!  p 
 p Fencing can be designed or modified in numerous ways to allow easy access by koalas and other wildlife.  p 
 p For more details please see the  a href="http:  www.ehp.qld.gov.au wildlife koalas legislation #koala_sensitive_design_guideline_a" target="_blank" Koala-sensitive Design Guideline  a  from DEHP.  p 
 p Koalas can drown if they fall into a pool and are unable to get out. It is quite easy to prevent this happening.  p 
 p For existing pools you can attach a piece of rope that the koala can use to climb out.  p 
 p If you are building a pool, think about designing it with a 'beach-type' access or large steps.  p 
 p For more details on these ideas and more, please see the  a href="http:  www.ehp.qld.gov.au wildlife koalas koala-threats.html" target="_blank" Koala Threats  a  information page from DEHP.  p 
 p There are many things you can do to make your backyard more enticing to koalas and other wildlife. If you have a large backyard, consider  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0008 275624 30183-living-with-wildlife-Koala-planting-trees-v2FINAL.pdf" planting trees for koalas (PDF 226 KB)  a . You can also take advantage of Council's  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs free-trees" Free Tree  a  program.  p 
 p See the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0007 276712 30183-living-with-wildlife-Koala-backyard-v2.pdf" Make Your Backyard Koala Friendly  (PDF 258 KB)  a and  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste wildlife wildlife-friendly-backyards" Wildlife-friendly Backyards  a  page for more great ideas.  p 
 p Council has many programs and activities for residents to become involved in. These include:  p 
 p If you see a koala in Logan, Council would love to know about it! See  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste wildlife report-wildlife-sightings-online" Report your Wildlife Sightings  a .  p 
 p Koalas can be found throughout the year, but you may be more likely to see or hear them during the breeding season from early spring to late summer.  p 
 p The  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0005 95513 Koala_Sightings_Map_July_2013.pdf" Koala Sightings Map  (PDF 4264 KB)  a  shows the locations of community koala sightings in Logan.  p 
 p To increase your chance of seeing a koala in Logan, try visiting one of these parks where koalas are known to occur:  p 
 p Koalas are notoriously difficult to see. If you go searching for koalas, look for these signs that indicate a koala might be in the area:  p 
 p  img alt="Koala scratch marks image 1" src="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets image 0008 91529 koala-scratch-marks.JPG" width="150" height="200"   img alt="Koala scratch marks image 2" src="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets image 0004 91903 scratch-marks-Meadowbrook-small.JPG" width="150" height="200"   p 
 p Scratch marks on trees. These may also be from goannas or possums.  p 
 p Koala scats (poo) around the base of trees. They are bullet-shaped and smell strongly of eucalyptus if they are fresh.  p 
 p For more help on identifying koala scats see  a href="http:  www.abc.net.au science articles 2007 09 26 2044094.htm" target="_blank" What scat is that?  a  on ABC Science.  p 
 p Even hearing koala calls or seeing a dead koala (such as roadkill) should be reported to Council.  p 
 p If a koala exhibits any of these signs it may be sick or injured:  p 
 p Call the Daisy Hill Koala Ambulance on 07 3299 1032 or 0412 429 898 (365 days a year, from 8 am to 4.30 pm).  p 
 p If you find the koala outside of the ambulance operation times, please call RSPCA on 1300 ANIMAL (1300 264 625) or Wildcare on 07 5527 2444.  p 
 p Both the  a href="http:  www.rspcaqld.org.au" target="_blank" RSPCA  a  and  a href="http:  www.wildcare.org.au" target="_blank" Wildcare  a  can be contacted 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for all sick or injured animals.  p 
 p For more information see the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0009 276714 30183-living-with-wildlife-Koala-sick-and-injured-v2.pdf" Sick or Injured Koala factsheet  (PDF 259 KB)  a .  p 
 p A koala with conjunctivitis (notice the red crusty swollen eyes) br 
Image Courtesy © Queensland Government  p 
 p A koala with cystitis (notice the dirty stained bottom) br 
Image Courtesy © Queensland Government  p 
 p This is a sick koala as it is sitting at the base of a tree and is very skinny (notice the prominent spine)  p 
 p The Koala Conservation Strategic Plan aims to ensure the long-term viability of koalas in Logan City by providing a framework with quantifiable outcomes, objectives and deliverable actions.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0006 391236 2016-Logans-Koala-Conservation-Strategy_web.pdf" City of Logan Koala Conservation Strategic Plan 2013-2023  (PDF 1533 KB)  a   p 
 p Council has a long standing commitment to preserve areas of environmental importance, particularly koala habitat areas. Council has secured large areas of bushland where koalas are common, and vegetation protection and appropriate land zonings have been in place for those areas for many years.  p 
 p Most of the core koala habitat in Logan is zoned for conservation. Council acquires bushland for conservation purposes, protects and enhances key corridors, and undertakes revegetation using offset contributions and funding from the Environmental Levy.  p 
 p As Council is faced with an increased population and greater demand for housing, it is important to continue to identify and protect koala habitat.  p 
 p Council has developed an Ecological Significance Map which identifies areas of the City with high ecological value, including areas of importance to koalas.  p 
 p The Logan Planning Scheme 2015 has mechanisms that will protect and enhance these areas.  p 
 p Future development will be directed towards areas mapped as low ecological value. Any development that does occur will require offsetting (i.e. cleared vegetation must be replaced by onsite revegetation or a financial contribution). Offsets will contribute to an increase in koala habitat in Logan, and will connect significant areas of fragmented vegetation.  p 
 p Logan's Koala Conservation Strategic Plan 2013-2023 further outlines the mechanisms of the Planning Scheme that address koala-specific issues, and also lists a number of actions that will improve the status of koalas in Logan.  p 
 p In 2013, Council revegetated approximately 11 hectares at five properties in the Chambers Flat and North Maclean area. These properties form part of the Logan River corridor. Council considers that targeting revegetation to alluvial soils will result in optimal koala habitat, and recent surveys have confirmed koala presence in the vicinity of the revegetated properties.  p 
 p In late 2013, Council secured funding from the Australian Government to restore a significant section of the Slacks Creek corridor. This will result in approximately 25 hectares of revegetation, and the first phase of planting has been completed. Koala presence is also known from the project sites.  p 
 p All of the revegetated properties are regularly monitored for changes in ecological condition, including fauna and bird surveys, photo-monitoring, and vegetation condition assessment. This is to ensure that the revegetation methods and site selection will result in positive ecological outcomes.  p 
 p Council has protected a number of parks as Koala Nature Refuges with the Department of Environment and Heritage Protection. These parks are:  p 
 p In order to adequately manage and improve the prospects for koalas in Logan, and south east Queensland, it is vital to know where they are, and to understand their population dynamics and interactions with the environment. Logan's Koala Conservation Strategic Plan 2013-2023 outlines a number of research projects Council hopes to investigate in order to better inform future koala management.  p 
 p In 2014 and 2015, Council undertook extensive surveys across the City to determine koala presence at a number of parks and reserves, as well as private properties. Locations searched previously had very little or no data about koala presence.  p 
 p Surveys were conducted using trained koala scat detection dogs handled by Olivia Woosnam from  a title="OWAD Environment" href="http:  www.owad.com.au " target="_blank" OWAD Environment  a . Using detection dogs to determine koala presence is a method that is faster, more accurate, and more efficient than human searchers.  p 
 p Maya conducted the surveys in 2014, and Taz conducted the surveys in 2015.  p 
 p To read more about Maya, please visit  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com koala-detection-dog.html" target="_blank" Koala Detection Dog  a .  p 
 p To read more about Taz, please visit  a title="OWAD Environment Koala Detection Dogs" href="http:  www.owad.com.au 21 koala-detection-dogs" target="_blank" Koala Detection Dogs  a .  p 
 p See the Koalas in Logan section for the survey results.  p 
 p Residents of Logan are encouraged to increase their knowledge of koalas. Council has updated the website with information on koalas in Logan, including parks where there is a good chance of seeing a koala and signs to look for.  p 
 p Council has a number of policies and programs in place to reduce the threat to koalas.  p 
 p The Environmental Management Planning Scheme Policy addresses the protection, enhancement and connection of koala habitat. It has provisions for safe koala movement, including requirements for roads, fencing, and vegetation clearing.  p 
 p Logan City Council works in partnership with the Department of Transport and Main Roads (DTMR) to increase awareness of koala movements across our roads by installing Koala warning signs. The Traffic Section works closely with the Environment and Sustainability Branch to determine and identify the most suitable locations for the installation of such signs. Warning signs are used infrequently and on a merit basis to ensure they remain effective to drivers.  p 
 p Logan City Council is completing the Corridor Barriers Mapping Project to identify existing road barriers to koala movement, and options to retrofit these barriers. This includes roads that cause existing problems and known upgrades that may cause problems.  p 
 p Residents of Logan are encouraged to reduce threats to koalas through their own actions.  p 
 p For ideas on what you can do to help koalas, see the Living With Koalas section.  p 
 p Council recognises that significant areas of land are in private ownership, and therefore has a number of incentives to encourage private landowners to retain, enhance, and revegetate their properties, for the benefit of all wildlife including koalas.  p 
 p These incentives include  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs conservation-incentives-program land-for-wildlife" Land for Wildlife  a ,  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs conservation-incentives-program voluntary-conservation-agreements" Voluntary Conservation Agreements  a , and  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs conservation-incentives-program voluntary-conservation-covenant" Voluntary Conservation Covenants  a .  p 
 p Logan City Council provides  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs free-trees" free trees  a  to residents to promote revegetation.  p 
 p All residents are encouraged to make their backyard or veranda wildlife-friendly. Residents can look at the website for  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste wildlife wildlife-friendly-backyards" ideas and inspiration  a .  p 
 p Council promotes and encourages environmental awareness amongst the community.  p 
 p Logan residents can participate in one of the many environmental activities Council holds throughout the year. This includes the annual  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs logan-eco-action-festival-leaf" Logan Eco Action Festival  a  (LEAF) - a fun, informative day coinciding with  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs world-environment-day" World Environment Day  a .  p 
 p Residents can also become involved through  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs envirogrants" EnviroGrants  a  and the  a href="https:  www.logan.qld.gov.au environment-water-and-waste environmental-programs bushcare-program" Bushcare Program  a .  p 
 p For the past four years, Logan City Council in conjunction with Redland City Council and Redland Koala Action Group, have run a community koala sightings survey over a weekend in October.  p 
 p The results from each survey have been collated by Council's Environment Officers and can be viewed in the following fact sheets:  p 
 p Logan City Council ran a community survey from 16 November 2011 to 20 January 2012. The main purpose of the survey was to get an overview of the community's perceptions and knowledge of koalas in Logan. The survey will be run again in a few years to determine if there has been a shift in perceptions and an increase in knowledge as a result of the actions implemented as a result of this first survey.  p 
