 p class="published" 
      Updated 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 20, 2017 08:33:55
      span 
      p 
 p A koala habitat 50 per cent larger than the Royal National Park has been destroyed by logging, according to a new conservation report.  p 
 p The report titled Clearing Koalas Away by conservationist Dailan Pugh, says more than 23,000 hectares of koala habitat near Coffs Harbour has been "virtually cleared".  p 
 p "They're hitting them really hard. We're looking at about 40 per cent of koala habitat in state forests," he said.  p 
 p "Their own modelling is showing these areas are important but they're ignoring that."  p 
 p Mr Pugh, an environmentalist for over 40 years, sourced the forestry data under freedom of information (FOI) legislation, in a bid to measure logging against known koala habitats.  p 
 p Last year, then-environment minister Mark Speakman admitted "intensive harvesting" on the North Coast was "not consistent" with regulations, and said the Environment Protection Authority was investigating.   p 
 p An EPA spokesperson declined to answer questions, but said "current rules are over 15 years old and lack clarity in important areas, including intensive harvesting".  p 
 p Recent studies suggest less than 9,000 koalas survive on the North Coast, a 50 per cent decline in the past 20 years.   p 
 p Habitat loss is widely acknowledged as a driver of the decline.  p 
 p    p 
 p Mr Pugh said a sustainable logging method called "single-tree selection" is being misused by Forestry Corporation.   p 
 p Single-tree selection permits the selective harvest of just 40 per cent of eucalypts trees in a logging zone — leaving 60 per cent of trees as off-limits.  p 
 p But the off-limits status is temporary, and evidence shows these trees are heavily logged in later operations.   p 
 p The reports highlights examples like Kerewong State Forest, with photos showing the heavy clearing of a mapped koala habitat.  p 
 p    p 
 p Forestry data and satellite maps show the neighbouring off-limits area was itself heavily logged in 2009, removing feed-trees and destroying habitat.  p 
 p Mr Pugh claimed the practice breached environmental laws.  p 
 p "It's definitely clear-felling and it's totally illegal," he said.  p 
 p "They're meant to retain 60 per cent of the area, and they're in there taking 80 to 90 per cent without doubt."  p 
 p A spokesperson for Environment Minister Gabrielle Upton said she was committed to "stabilise and ultimately increase the numbers of koalas" and is "developing a whole-of-government koala strategy" to complement its conservation work.  p 
 p class="topics" 
	 strong Topics:  strong 
	
	 a href=" news topic environment" environment  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic environmental-impact" environmental-impact  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic environmental-management" environmental-management  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic environmental-policy" environmental-policy  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animals" animals  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic government-and-politics" government-and-politics  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic coffs-harbour-2450" coffs-harbour-2450  a 
	
  p 
 p class="published" 
    First posted 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 20, 2017 06:25:18
      span 
    p 
 p 
          





 a href=" news nsw " class="button" 
 span  strong 
  More
  strong  stories from New South Wales  span   a 

  p 
 p If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news,  a href=" news contact tip-off " target="_self" title="" contact the ABC  a .  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.abc.net.au news about backstory " target="_self" title="" ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  about.abc.net.au how-the-abc-is-run what-guides-us abc-editorial-standards " target="_self" title="" Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.  a   p 
 p Facebook removed 1.5 million videos of the Christchurch mosque attacks globally during the first 24 hours. That's their problem, and ours, writes Ariel Bogle.  p 
 p There's a lot of emotions people might be feeling in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Christchurch. Get some tips on how to be an effective ally to those who feel marginalised.  p 
 p New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is calling for the country to remember the names of the victims of the Christchurch shootings instead of the "terrorist" who "sought notoriety" through the attacks. Read her full speech.  p 
 p Hoaxes that threaten your kids one day, and turn out to be fake the next, are exhausting for kids and adults. But there are tools and tricks to help you spot a hoax.  p 
 p 
           small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small 
          p 
 p 
           small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small 
          p 
