 p Dear Hon Jackie Trad &amp; Hon Anna Palaszczuk,   p 
 p Please reverse federal approval allowing QGC gas company to clear 54 hectares of koala habitat for new coal seam gas wells on Queensland's Western Downs.   p 
 p Please consider the serious impact on our native Koalas – up to 80% of koalas who lose their homes are likely to be wiped out.  p 
 p Please consider the potential risk to public health from coal seam gas mining.   p 
 p Please consider the serious impact on the environment - invest in renewable energy such as solar and wind instead.  p 
 p Please uphold and validate the purpose of The Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act) legislation that is meant to focus on the protection of matters of national environmental significance.  p 
 p Please stop selling out to big corporations who have little regard for animals, people or the environment and who are only driven by profit and greed.  p 
 p Thank you!  p 
 p Koala populations are already struggling in certain parts of Queensland such as Dalby.  p 
 p Habitat is critical to the survival of the koala and up to 80% of koalas who lose their habitat are likely to be wiped out.  p 
 p The proposed destruction of koala habitat is for new coal seam gas wells on Queensland's Western Downs. Coal seam gas mining is a threat to farmlands and water resources not to mention the public health risks which have not yet been properly assessed. Potential harm could include an increased risk of cancer.  p 
 p What else can we do?  p 
 p Write to minister Hon Jackie Trad  a href="mailto:deputy.premier@ministerial.qld.gov.au" deputy.premier@ministerial.qld.gov.au  a 
 br Write to the Premier of Queensland Hon Anna Palaszczuk 
 br  a href="https:  www.thepremier.qld.gov.au tools contact.aspx" https:  www.thepremier.qld.gov.au tools contact.aspx  a  
 br Join the Animal Justice Party Queensland  a href="https:  animaljusticeparty.org join " https:  animaljusticeparty.org join   a  
 br Donate to the Australian Koala Foundation  a href="https:  www.savethekoala.com " https:  www.savethekoala.com   a   p 
 p 100 signatures reached  p 
 p 50 signatures reached  p 
 p 25 signatures reached  p 
 p 10 signatures reached  p 
