 p Let AccuWeather help you personalize your day-to-day forecasts, to help you better know how to plan your day, and your outdoor activities.  p 
 p Visualize past, present, and future weather from many angles via both static and interactive maps  p 
 p Current and future radar maps for assessing areas of precipitation, type, and intensity  p 
 p Currently active global watches and warnings, lightning, and severe weather risk  p 
 p Satellite maps for visualizing where there is cloud cover and associated precipitation  p 
 p Daily forecast maps for temperature, precipitation, wind, and key indices  p 
 p U.S. Weather Radar  p 
 p class="thumb-description" Current radar showing where and how intense precipitation is falling  p 
 p Coverage of top events from the world’s most trusted name in weather  p 
 p Breaking news and top weather stories from around the globe.  p 
 p Daily blog of news related to the topic of global climate change  p 
 p Opinions on weather and climate by our top experts  p 
 p Video coverage of the top weather events people are talking about  p 
 p Watch the best weather videos across the web  p 
 p How will the latest weather patterns impact you?  p 
 p Our field teams brave the elements  p 
 p Offers weather watches and warnings for the US  p 
 p Everything you need for tracking hurricane season 2018  p 
 p Be prepared for any type of weather  p 
 p Provides winter weather forecasts and the winter weather outlook for your area  p 
 p Video coverage of the top weather events people are talking about  p 
 p A unique weather forecasting game, absolutely free!  Make predictions and earn up to $100 cash!  p 
 p Listen to behind-the-scenes details on trending weather topics.  p 
 p Explore More, Dive Deeper, Analyze Faster with AccuWeather Premium  p 
 p Visit our Corporate Site for more info on AccuWeather  p 
 p Exciting discounts and deals offered by AccuWeather through our coupon affiliate website.  p 
 p style="font-size:13px;font-weight:bold;color:#00afbe; display:inline-block;margin-top:8px;" Share this article:  p 
 p  br Global wildlife populations have fallen by 60 percent since 1970, and koalas are declining at an even faster rate.  p 
 p The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) released the  a href="http:  www.panda.org lpr " Living Planet Report 2018  a  on Tuesday, Oct. 30, which reveals the decline in worldwide species. The report is a comprehensive study of the health of the planet and the impacts of humans on nature.  p 
 p The report indicates that global populations have declined by 60 percent on average in just over 40 years, a rate of 13.6 percent per decade. Meanwhile, koalas in eastern Australia are declining at a rate of 21 percent per decade.  p 
 p WWF-Australia estimates there are less than 20,000 koalas left in New South Wales (NSW). At the current rate, koalas are on track to be extinct in the state by 2050, WWF-Australia conservationist Dr. Stuart Blanch said. br   p 
 p class="article-image" 
    
     img src="https:  accuweather.brightspotcdn.com dims4 default 551a45e 2147483647 resize 590x quality 90 ?url=http%3A%2F%2Faccuweather-bsp.s3.amazonaws.com%2F08%2Fcd%2F9f058c5545329f263d2bb4720ddb%2Fkoala.jpg" alt="koala" 
    

    

    
         span class="caption"  p  i Koala joey Ramboora and his mother Iona sit in the enclosure in the zoo in Duisburg, Germany, Wednesday, March 8, 2017. (Roland Weihrauch dpa via AP)  i   p   span 
    
  p 
 p  i Koala joey Ramboora and his mother Iona sit in the enclosure in the zoo in Duisburg, Germany, Wednesday, March 8, 2017. (Roland Weihrauch dpa via AP)  i   p 
 p  br The shrinking koala number is largely explained by deforestation and fragmentation, as Eastern Australia is named as one of the 11 global deforestation fronts. Australia is the only developed country on the list.  p 
 p Clearing for livestock is listed as the primary cause of Eastern Australia’s forest loss with unsustainable logging as a secondary cause.  p 
 p Koalas have very specific dietary requirements, relying almost exclusively on eucalyptus tree leaves for food and water.   p 
 p “When those trees are cleared, koalas are killed when the trees fall down or when they are crushed by bulldozers,” Blanch said.  p 
 p 
                        
                             span class="" 
     b RELATED:  b 

     em 
        
             br  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en weather-news 15-animals-facing-extinction-due-to-climate-change 70000220" target="_top" 15 animals facing extinction due to climate change  a 
        
             br  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en weather-news how-would-a-species-extinction-impact-the-food-web-our-ecosystems 70004743" target="_top" How would a species' extinction impact the food web, our ecosystems?   a 
        
             br  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en weather-news study-finds-half-of-plant-animal-species-at-risk-from-climate-chance-in-worlds-most-important-natural-places 70004596" target="_top" Unchecked carbon emissions could jeopardize plants, animals in world's most vital habitats  a 
        
      em 
  span 

                        
                              p 
 p They also die when they are forced onto the ground to find new habitat, because they become vulnerable to attacks by dogs and collisions with vehicles.   p 
 p They also become stressed, and thus become more susceptible to contracting diseases like Chlamydia.   p 
 p Satellite imagery shows a massive spike in the destruction of NSW koala forests, with the rate of tree clearing tripling in the state’s north since the axing of the NSW Native Vegetation Act in August 2017.  p 
 p The removal of laws protecting koala forests led to the bulldozing of more than 5,000 hectares of koala habitat in the NSW districts of Moree and Collarenebri at a rate of about 14 football fields a day,  a href="https:  www.wwf.org.au ArticleDocuments 353 2018_bulldozing_of_bushland_nearly_triples_wwf_ncc_final_singles.pdf.aspx" target="_blank" a report   a by WWF-Australia and the NSW Nature Conservation Council found.  p 
 p The Moree-Collarenebri region is already extensively cleared, with only 6 percent of the study area has forest remaining. br   p 
 p class="article-image" 
    
     img src="https:  accuweather.brightspotcdn.com dims4 default dcf830f 2147483647 resize 590x quality 90 ?url=http%3A%2F%2Faccuweather-bsp.s3.amazonaws.com%2F16%2Fe8%2Fcf3c26fd43aca2bd822eed546782%2Fkoala.jpg" alt="koala" 
    

    

    
  p 
 p  br The report was released on Friday, Sept. 7, which is National Threatened Species Day. The koala is designated as vulnerable to extinction under commonwealth and state law.  p 
 p “We are releasing this report on National Threatened Species Day to highlight that the destruction of koala habitat is accelerating in NSW and to call on the government to urgently strengthen the laws to ensure koalas and other threatened native animals are given the protections they need,” Blanch said.  p 
 p The report’s satellite imagery analysis confirms the dire predictions of the government’s own advisors, who warned the new laws would permit bulldozing of 99 percent of all identified koala habitat on private land in the state, Nature Conservation Council CEO Kate Smolski said in the press release.  p 
 p “The NSW Government is responsible for opening the floodgates to the destruction of koala forests and woodlands on a scale we have not seen for more than 20 years,” Smolski said. “This report looks at a fraction of the state, so we fear this spike in deforestation in the north is just the tip of the iceberg.”  p 
 p The plight of koalas is matched by alarming declines for many other uniquely Australian species who are losing their forest homes, WWF-Australia CEO Dermot O’Gorman said in the WWF press release.  p 
 p The habitat for approximately 247 native species may have been destroyed in 2017-18, including habitat for nine species of National Environmental Significance.  p 
 p “It is a wakeup call for our east coast to appear alongside notorious forest destruction hotspots such as the Amazon, Congo Basin, Sumatra and Borneo,” O’Gorman said.  p 
 p O’Gorman said in the press release that the NSW government needs to reverse its recent axing of laws due to its impact on koalas.  p 
 p “Buying land is welcome but will only save a fraction of koala habitat – stronger forest protection laws are crucial,” O’Gorman said. br   p 
 p class="article-image" 
    
     img src="https:  accuweather.brightspotcdn.com dims4 default c5d6167 2147483647 resize 590x quality 90 ?url=http%3A%2F%2Faccuweather-bsp.s3.amazonaws.com%2F7c%2Ffe%2Fa4e9d4254a76a5cea57ee556ff88%2Fkoala-royal.jpg" alt="koala royal" 
    

    

    
         span class="caption"  p  i Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex meet Ruby a Koala during a visit to Taronga Zoo in Sydney, Australia, Tuesday, Oct.16, 2018. Prince Harry and his wife Meghan are on a 16-day tour of Australia and the South Pacific. (Dominic Lipinski Pool via AP)  i   p   span 
    
  p 
 p  i Britain's Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex meet Ruby a Koala during a visit to Taronga Zoo in Sydney, Australia, Tuesday, Oct.16, 2018. Prince Harry and his wife Meghan are on a 16-day tour of Australia and the South Pacific. (Dominic Lipinski Pool via AP)  i   p 
 p  br The report concludes that repeal of the NSW Native Vegetation Act in August 2017 was likely the major reason behind the dramatic surge in forest and woodland destruction in this known clearing hotspot.  p 
 p In order to protect these endangered species, the government must pass stronger laws to protect trees, as trees provide a home to koalas and other endangered species, Blanch said.  p 
 p “We have to stop this excessive tree-clearing if we want to keep koalas alive in the wild for future generations,” Blanch said.  p 
 p There needs to be much larger networks of protected areas to provide sanctuaries for koalas.   p 
 p “The world must also rapidly cut greenhouse gas emissions as koalas are already becoming extinct in the hotter and drier inland parts of the state. Koalas are retreating towards the coast and uplands to escape climate change impacts,” Blanch said.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.wwf.org.au savekoalas" WWF-Australia  a  and the  a href="http:  www.nature.org.au savekoalas" Nature Conservation Council  a  have launched petitions to call on both sides of government to take action to protect koalas in NSW for future generations.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.accuweather.com en contact?type=typo" style="color:#f05514;font-size:11px;" Report a Typo  a   p 
 p Comments that don't add to the conversation may be automatically or manually removed by Facebook or AccuWeather. Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.  p 
 p A fresh snowfall means a brand new canvas for an imaginative Toronto resident who produces art masterpieces, and captures it all on video.  p 
 p Severe Tropical Cyclone Trevor made landfall on the Cape York Peninsula on Tuesday and is expected to plow westward into the Gulf of Carpentaria, threatening parts of the Northern Territory later this week.  p 
 p Showers and cooler conditions have descended upon northern portions of Florida over the past few days as a front slowly churned through the state.  p 
 p The track and strength of a fast-developing storm near the coast will determine the extent of snow, rain and gusty winds in the northeastern United States prior to the end of this week.  p 
 p Flooding will continue in waves and varying degrees of severity over the central United States, including a large part of the Mississippi River watershed, through the spring.  p 
 p Relentless rain, snow and cold hammered the United States during the winter of 2018-2019.  p 
 p After an extended break from storms, a new storm from the Pacific will eye California and much of the Southwest during the middle to latter part of this week.  p 
 p Tropical depression Chedeng organized across the Philippine Sea and will threaten the southern Philippines with flash flooding and gusty winds early this week.  p 
 p A fresh snowfall means a brand new canvas for an imaginative Toronto resident who produces art masterpieces, and captures it all on video.  p 
 p Severe Tropical Cyclone Trevor made landfall on the Cape York Peninsula on Tuesday and is expected to plow westward into the Gulf of Carpentaria, threatening parts of the Northern Territory later this week.  p 
 p Showers and cooler conditions have descended upon northern portions of Florida over the past few days as a front slowly churned through the state.  p 
 p The track and strength of a fast-developing storm near the coast will determine the extent of snow, rain and gusty winds in the northeastern United States prior to the end of this week.  p 
 p Flooding will continue in waves and varying degrees of severity over the central United States, including a large part of the Mississippi River watershed, through the spring.  p 
 p Relentless rain, snow and cold hammered the United States during the winter of 2018-2019.  p 
 p After an extended break from storms, a new storm from the Pacific will eye California and much of the Southwest during the middle to latter part of this week.  p 
 p Tropical depression Chedeng organized across the Philippine Sea and will threaten the southern Philippines with flash flooding and gusty winds early this week.  p 
 p Parts of the heartland were inundated by floodwaters, leaving some communities totally surrounded by water.  p 
 p Wednesday marks the official start to spring in the Northern Hemisphere and just hours later, stargazers will be able to see something that won’t be visible again until 2020.  p 
 p © 2019 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved. AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en legal" Terms of usage  a  under which this service is provided  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en privacy" Privacy Statement  a  |  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en privacy#adChoices" Ad Choices  a  |  a href="https:  www.accuweather.com en cookiepolicy" Cookie Policy  a   p 
