 p This site uses cookies to enhance your experience. By using our website you consent to our use of cookies.     a href="  www.rzss.org.uk cookie-policy" target="_blank" Find out more  a     a href="#" title="OK" class="accept" I Agree  a   p 
 p Book tickets  span The fastest way to visit  span   p 
 p Day planner  span Make the most of your visit  span   p 
 p class="sub-text" 
Esther Conway from WildCats Conservation Alliance will explain the threats that Sumatran tigers face and how zoos are working together to protect the largest wild population in the Kerinci Seblat National Park, Sumatra.
  p 
 p class="title arrow-wht" An evening with Wildcats Conservation Alliance  p 
 p Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences?  p 
 p How to book  span All the information you need to help you start planning your educational trip.  span   p 
 p Sponsorship Opportunities  span No two sponsorship packages are the same so we work with our sponsors to create a partnership that best suits their business needs.  span   p 
 p Corporate Support  span Help us make a difference   span   p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo is home to the UK's only Queensland koalas.   p 
 p Our adult male koala is called Goonaroo.  Goonaroo's name is Aboriginal for “wood duck,” and he was born in 2004, he is the father to our new koala joey. We received a female koala called Alinga (which means sun) from Duisburg Zoo in Germany on 14 February 2013 and on 10 August 2018 we welcomed the arrival of Tanami a 19-month-old male Queensland koala from Duisburg Zoo in Germany.    p 
 p On the 18 January 2019 we were delighted to announce that a 6-month old koala joey has been seen peeking it's head out of mum, Alinga's pouch.  a data-id="15185" href=" news article 15185 koala-joey-peeks-out-at-edinburgh-zoo " title="Koala joey peeks out at Edinburgh Zoo" Click here to watch the video...  a   span During a recent health check, the keepers have been able to confirm that our new joey is a girl! She has been named Kalari, an Aboriginal-inspired name meaning daughter.  span   p 
 p  strong Location in the Zoo:  strong   p 
 p  span Please note that  span  span    span  a data-id="6792" href=" animals-and-attractions main-attractions koala-territory " title="Koala Territory" Koala Territory  a  span  span    span opening hours may vary as the new joey settles in  span   p 
 p  strong Breeding Programme Category:  strong   p 
 p Our koalas are managed by the International Stud Book programme (ISB)  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Vulnerable  strong   p 
 p class="meta" For more info on classifications visit  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org" www.iucnredist.org  a   p 
 p class="sub-fact" 
Woodland
  p 
 p Koalas ( em Phascolarctos cinereus adustus  em ) are one of the most iconic animals in Australia and although they are bear like in appearance they are in fact marsupials. There is only one species of koala but there are distinct regional differences depending on which area of Australia they are found – the further south you go, the larger and hairier the koalas become!  p 
 p  br  Koalas are usually solitary animals, each with their own home range or territory. Females will travel with their offspring until they are independent and able to establish their own home range. Male koalas have a scent gland situated on the front of their chests which secretes a smelly scent that the koalas rub on the base of trees to mark their territory and warn other males of their presence to avoid conflict.  br  br  Only a handful of other animals are able to use eucalyptus as a food source as its high levels of essential oils are toxic to most species. Koalas have special cheek teeth which help grind the leaves into a fine paste. This paste then enters their specialised digestive system which breaks down the eucalyptus to eliminate the toxic material whilst allowing the rest to be digested safely.  br  br  Due to their diet lacking nutrition, koalas carry no body fat - every bit of energy derived from food is used to drive essential body functions and enable the koala to move. Therefore the koala spends long periods of time sleeping, normally between 18 and 22 hours a day, to help compensate for this. Koalas are rarely seen drinking – most of their water intake comes from the eucalyptus leaves.  br  br  Koalas are marsupials and this means they have a different reproductive system compares to other mammals. After mating the 11 – 35 day old embryo, which is the size of a jelly bean at this stage, is born. It crawls into the pouch of the female koala and attaches to a teat where it stays for approximately 7 months to develop, similar to kangaroos and wallabies. In the pouch the joey (baby) feeds on milk and a substance called ‘pap’, which is a watery form of the mother’s poo. This will provide the joey’s digestive system with the micro-organisms essential for digesting the toxic eucalyptus leaves. When the baby (called a joey) is ready to emerge they can often be seen poking out of their mothers rear-facing pouch. When they are developed enough they will come out and ride around on its mother’s back.  br  br  Koala numbers are in decline throughout the Eastern coast of Australia where they naturally occur. The eucalyptus forests that the koalas depend upon for survival are disappearing to make way for roads and housing as more areas are being inhabited by humans. When koalas move from one tree to another on the ground they are very vulnerable to predation from dogs, both wild and domestic, and many are struck by cars. They are also killed for “fun” by humans with guns as they are quite literally “sitting targets” whilst asleep in the trees.  br  br  When wildfires break out, whole eucalyptus forests are wiped out very quickly as eucalyptus burns easily – this has devastating effects on the koalas’ food supply and many are trapped in the burning trees.  p 
 p Enjoy a range of member benefits and visit us as many times as you like.   p 
 p Visit us. Love us. Adopt us.   p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.  p 
 p Registered charity number: SC004064  p 
