 p style="font-weight:100; background-color:#2c3648; color:#ffffff" 
&lt;a href="http:  www.bearplanet.org" br title="Kodiak: Grizzly, Panda, Polar Bear"&gt;Bears - BearPlanet.org&lt; a&gt;
  p 
 p 
                       u  b You may know that it comes from Australia, but what you may be 
                      	surprised to discover is the fact that the Koala is not a bear, 
                      	but like its Australian counterpart the Kangaroo is in fact a marsupial.
                      	  In fact, the only reason the Koala is referred to as “koala bear” is 
                      	  because it resembles the adorable little teddy bears that are known 
                      	  for being cute and cuddly.  Not only are koalas not bears, they also 
                      	  don’t have a reputation for being cuddly, though everyone admits they 
                      	  are extremely cute.  b   u   p 
 p  b  u Koalas  u   b  (scientific name: Phascolarctos cinereus) are so strongly reminiscent of bears
                  		that they are commoncly called "koala bears".  br As an arboreal marsupial , the Koala’s body is very similar to that of 
                  		the wombat.  Like kangaroos and wombats, Koala Bears carry their young in 
                  		a pouch.  br     
 br 
                  		Their babies are called joeys (like kangaroos) and the koala babies 
                  		remain in the Koala’s pouch for up to six months.  What is amazing is that 
                  		when the new Koala Bear, or Joey is born, he or she only measures a 
                  		quarter of an inch long! br  
                  		 When the Joey begins the journey to the mother’s 
                  		pouch they have no fur, are blind, and have no ears.  They grow and 
                  		develop over the next six months and drink only their mother’s milk. 
                  		 br  br  
                  		Once the Joey reaches approximately six months of age, they will begin 
                  		to leave the pouch.  However, Koala Bears remain closely bonded with 
                  		their mothers, often riding on their backs until they are twelve months 
                  		old. br  br 
                  			  p 
 p 
											Koalas are native to Australia and are not indigenous to any other regions.
											 Interestingly, the Koala is not found in Western Australia nor is it 
											 found in Tasmania.  br   br 
											  Not only are they herbivores, but also their diet 
											 consists mainly of Eucalyptus leaves. They have very slow digestive 
											 systems and due to this they are a very slow moving animal. The Koala 
											 sleeps up to nineteen hours per day, the remaining five hours is spent 
											 eating and gathering food. br  br 
											In some aspects, Koala Bears are very similar to humans.  
											They have fingerprints, that when looked at under the microscope, 
											are nearly indistinguishable from human fingerprints.  Additionally, 
											Koalas live in societal groups. They stay in groups and from lasting 
											relationships with other members of their community.  What is very 
											interesting to note, is that within these societies, Koalas become very
											 territorial and institute a home range.
  A home range is the Koala’s 
											 territory and includes a specific location including trees. 
											  br   br 
Koalas each 
											 have their own individual trees, though some home range boundaries 
											 overlap with other Koalas and they live harmoniously with one another. 
											 Within the Koala community, the Koala bear may mark their trees with 
											 scent and they also spend a great deal of time communicating. Mothers 
											 and young communicate by making clicking or humming noises, however there
											  is one sound that all Koalas make.  
 br  br 
It is a high piercing shriek that 
											  signals warning or distress.  Many people liken the sound to that of a 
											  baby crying or screaming.
  p 
 p 
											Koalas rely heavily upon the Eucalyptus tree; therefore, 
											they are threatened when the Eucalypt Forest is harvested. Currently, 
											nearly eighty percent of the Eucalypt Forest has been destroyed and of 
											the remaining twenty percent, none is protected by the government. 
  p 
 p 
											In fact,most of the Eucalypt Forest is privately owned land.  Harvesting combined
											  with forest fires and disease places the Koala Bear at great risk. 
											  Therefore it is very important that steps are taken to ensure that the 
											  Koala is protected and that conservation ensures the native Eucalypt 
											  Forest is preserved.
										 br  br   p 
