 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;" Koala Detection Dog Maya is the latest recruit
in the fight to protect threatened koalas.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya, the koala detection dog  span   p 
 p To know more about detection dogs, you can also see these pages:   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com conservation-dogs.html"  b Conservation Dogs  b   a    p 
 p style="text-align: center;" on why sniffer dogs are such powerful help
in preserving wild animals, as well as how to train a detection dog and its
handler, and finally the many other ways dogs get involved in conservation.
  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com conservation-dog-trainer.html"  b Conservation Dog Trainer  b   a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" how to become a dog
trainer to help wildlife through the example of Maya’s trainer.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" In this “koala detection dog” page we focus on
Maya’s career and achievements.  span   p 
 p Maya wasn’t always a koala detection dog. She had a life
before that but we don’t know much about that. This is because Maya was abandoned in a
shelter without a name or a history.  p 
 p That’s probably because Maya is a bit special: she is
totally obsessed with balls – or as her trainer says, she has an “Obsessive
Compulsive Disorder” with balls.  p 
 p That might have made her too much to handle for her previous
owner: we’ll never know.   p 
 p But what we know is that one day Maya found herself in a
very critical position: she was an obsessive dog abandoned at a shelter. And
sadly, dogs with “problems” that are left at a shelter get put down…  p 
 p 

  p 
 p Thankfully for Maya, what makes a less-than-perfect pet
actually is the best quality for a detection dog. And so Maya was chosen to
become a koala detection dog!  p 
 p The amazing  a href="http:  www.dogtrainingtips.net.au " onclick="return FIX.track(this);" Gary Jackson, dog trainer extraordinaire  a  at
 a href="http:  www.garyjacksondogtrainer.com " onclick="return FIX.track(this);" CaptainK9  a , rescued her from the pound and trained her to be the very first koala detection
dog trained on koala poo!  p 
 p    p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" And so on August the 27th 2011, Maya entered my
life…  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" This is her story…  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya in one of her favourite activities: chasing sticks at the beach!  span  br   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" We know Maya has an Obsessive Compulsive Disorder with balls,
a great quality for a detection dog. But as a dog that would work outdoors, in
potential koala habitat, Maya had to have another, equally important quality…   span   p 
 p 

  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya is very good at not chasing or barking. She lives with
a cat and a few chickens, and the chicken rule the yard!   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" 

Also Maya is trained
to not react to wildlife, so that when she works in pristine areas like
National Parks, she is not a risk to the local wildlife.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya the dog, Smokey the cat and the chook-chooks  span  br   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" So to recap, in order to get Maya operational, she had to:  span   p 
 p 

  p 
 p 

 span style="font-size: 16.6px;" 

So not your normal
dog! (Please note that it is not permitted to send your dog tracking native wildlife
if you haven’t done all of the above…)  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya ignoring kangaroos  span  br   p 
 p What do you mean by “habitat”?  p 
 p Habitat is the scientific way to call the space an animal
needs to live a good life. It is more than just “home” because if you think of
it, humans need more than their home to live. An animal habitat includes where
it can find food at different times of the year, where it can rest and be
protected from its predators, where it can meet friends and find romance and finally
raise its young.   p 
 p Maya is called a detection dog (also sometimes referred to as "sniffer dog") because she can detect, by sniffing, an odor that she was trained on. In Maya's case, she sniffs koala poo. br   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" And Maya’s nose can beat a human's any time.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" You might find it strange that Maya is trained to sniff out koala poo. The reason many
people are interested in poo (beside the fact that  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com animal-poo.html" animal poo is fascinating  a ) is that where
there is koala poo, there has been a koala.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Therefore what Maya really sniffs
out is koala habitat.  span   p 
 p 

  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" And we really need to know where koala habitat is because
there isn’t so much of it anymore.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" 

And thus we really
need to protect what habitat is left – koalas are already vulnerable and
their population is continuously going down.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Koala poo in amongst bark and leaves is extremely easy to miss!  span  br   p 
 p Maya’s abilities as a Koala Detection Dog have been tested
against human performances. Maya relies on her nose, while koala ecologists
rely on their eyesight. The problem with looking for koala poo with your eyes
is that:  p 
 p Whereas for Maya, the koala detection dog:   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya is super accurate (where there is koala poo, she will
find it) and really really quick –  about 200 times quicker than a trained
ecologist (me), actually.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" What it means in real terms is that Maya will find koala poo
where humans have missed it, and she will do so quicker too.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Not bad!   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" (She so wants to play with this ball!!!) br   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya with her reward: a tennis ball  span  br   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya has been involved in some exciting projects so far,
such as:  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" 





What we hope for Maya
is to influence how we look for koalas in the future. Army, Police, Border Security:
they wouldn’t attempt to do their job without dogs. We hope soon no one
attempts to look for koala habitat without a trained detection dog. Because each time humans
survey koala habitat and make a mistake, we lose a little bit more of koalas’
home…  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" So Maya is now an employee of the University of the Sunshine Coast! br   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 15.6px;font-style: normal;" Maya at the   span  span style="font-size: 16.6px;"  span style="font-size: 15.6px;font-style: normal;" University of the Sunshine Coast with her supporting team including the talented Gary Jackson from Captain K9 (Maya's trainer)   span   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 16.6px;"  span style="font-size: 15.6px;font-style: normal;" and the gorgeous Farmer Dave with Snowy (potential future detection dog)  span  br   span   p 
 p With Maya now being part of an expert team and a University, we can ensure she stays at her best.  p 
 p As well, the University has many labs where interesting further analyses of koala poo can happen, enabling us to collect much more data than just presence of poo. For example:  p 
 p As the first koala poo detection dog ever trained, Maya has
been attracting a bit of attention…  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya the koala detection dog started her media career with a part in the popular French TV show “Sept à huit” (24 8 2012) thanks
to a great documentary from Loïc Grasset and Fabrice Launay.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" 

Maya’s career on TV
continued with filming the great Channel 10 kid show “Totally Wild” as well as Channel 7
and Channel 9 News.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya in "Totally Wild  span "  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Chanel 10  span  br   p 
 p  span style="font-size:12.0pt;" The camera loves Maya! Or is it Maya who loves the camera? br   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size:12.0pt;" She has now been in many
newspapers and internet news sites (see  a href="http:  www.abc.net.au news 2014-04-15 council-enlists-dog-to-sniff-out-koala-habitats 5392386" target="_blank" onclick="return FIX.track(this);" Maya on ABC News  a ).  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 10pt;" The camera loves Maya!   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya has taken part in several presentations and shows, such as:   span   p 
 p 

  p 
 p Thank you  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Logan City Council and the W  span  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" ildlife Preservation Society of Queensland for supporting Maya from the start! br   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya and Gary Jackson (Maya's trainer) at the LEAF,   span  span style="font-size: 16.6px;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Logan Eco Action Festival 2012  span  br   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Outdoor talk about Maya at   span  span style="font-size: 16.6px;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Logan
Conservation Incentives Day, Logan, 2012  span  br   span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16.6px;" Maya also had the honour of promoting detection
dogs in front of bright International Master Students in Conservation, koala
professionals and passionate people from the newly formed Australian Koala Alliance as
well as the Australia Zoo Joey Ambassadors.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14.6px;" Maya demonstrates how quickly she finds koala poo in front of the Australia Zoo Joey Ambassadors  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 18.6px;"  em Maya, the koala detection dog is a hard working, loving and full-of-life dog. She can melt the heart of anyone she meets.   em   span   p 
 p 

  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 18.6px;"  em Maya is also an amazing ally for koalas and all of those who want to protect them.   em   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 18.6px;"  em We hope Maya can be an ambassador for wildlife conservation
and promote the use of the best tools we have in our attempt to save species,
whether these tools are canine or high tech!  em   span   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-time"  abbr title="2015-01-16T20:25:29-0500" Jan 16, 15 08:25 PM  abbr   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-content" Volunteer with Rhinos at the International Anti-Poaching Foundation Green Army Volunteer Program and be at the front line of black rhino protection.  p 
 p class="WhatsNew-more"  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com Volunteer_with_Rhinos.html" Read More  a   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-time"  abbr title="2014-08-29T22:56:50-0400" Aug 29, 14 10:56 PM  abbr   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-content" Volunteer with Servals in Africa at a wildlife sanctuary - a volunteer testimony.  p 
 p class="WhatsNew-more"  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com volunteer-with-servals.html" Read More  a   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-time"  abbr title="2014-07-20T02:33:59-0400" Jul 20, 14 02:33 AM  abbr   p 
 p class="WhatsNew-content" Reduce plastic not only in your life but in the area you live in to have a bigger impact!  p 
 p class="WhatsNew-more"  a href="http:  www.wildhelpers.com reduce-plastic.html" Read More  a   p 
 p By Wildhelpers © All rights reserved.  p 
 p Unless otherwise stated, all pictures are from me. You can use them anyway you like except for commercial use. Attribution is appreciated but not obligatory. br   p 
