 p There are few things that drive home the impact of habitat destruction on the world's wildlife quite like a photograph of a lone victim surrounded by the remains of its razed home.  p 
 p This poignant image was posted online by animal rescue group  a href="http:  wildcare.org.au" Wildcare Australia  a  after its team found the koala wandering around a recently cleared development site on the northern end of the Gold Coast in Queensland.   p 
 p Habitat loss due to development is a massive concern all across the globe, and Australia's iconic marsupials are just one of many animals to feel the effects. “I think a lot of people see cleared areas and they realise in the back of their minds it was once habitat for wildlife, but until you see a photo like that, you don't realise that a koala, which is supposed to be an iconic Australian species, has no home left,” Wildcare Australia's Karen Scott told the  em  a href="http:  www.brisbanetimes.com.au queensland lost-koala-on-gold-coast-building-site-not-an-oddity-wildlife-group-20151014-gk9gkw.html" Brisbane Times  a .  em  “And its not just koalas, every species that lived there, possums, gliders, carpet pythons, all of those animals have either been killed or lost their homes."   p 
 p While rules do exist to help protect Queensland's flora and fauna on development sites  (including the stipulation that developers  a href="http:  www.smh.com.au environment conservation how-much-can-the-koala-bear-20120216-1tas3.html" employ koala "spotters"  a  during the clearing process), they don’t address all of the issues. For example, koalas are actually habitual animals, meaning they return to locations they’ve spent time in before. "They know where their favourite trees are, so when she gets there, there's nothing,” explains Scott.    p 
 p There’s also the issue of cars: as patches of the koalas' eucalyptus habitat get smaller and more fragmented, the animals are more likely to cross through developments, and inevitably, roads. Being hit by cars is their  a href=" conservation success-stories baby-koala-refuses-to-let-go-during-moms-surgery-photos" second biggest threat  a .  p 
 p Wildcare's most recent rescue, who's since been nicknamed Ash, is actually one of the lucky ones to survive the clearing process. She's had a full medical exam and is currently being cared for at a wildlife hospital. She'll be be released back into wild as soon as she’s ready and a suitable [and safer] home is found.   p 
 p Top header image:  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos justininsd 5467195979 in photolist-pJ1Tvz-eaVUjM-65P88P-c9id2G-9k7NTD-bkSun2-4UrvEn-fAFHbN-bFevi5-k6N9e6-wcqxH-bWd997-6CEh8-okyeTr-oA3iiA-e9Cv5Z-fLbxxg-7ksowt-k51jN-oxamts-7mvFm-8Ldn8f-9fVX7P-awECvG-fJkhrT-7PPbnz-oizAuq-6z9aDw-mNMNmr-66sP18-4ZhbLG-bq2P9M-A1y8d-arFJmZ-aERXvY-4jfmWY-661yBp-dQYmdJ-71eWDz-9n3K8o-kjduDU-js1x7n-4mCmme-98sYrd-gVj3rq-j9sHzp-ozNjVk-9A7NWw-bsxjqL-dBhUPg" target="_blank" Justin Brown, Flickr  a    p 
 p 
                            Andy Jeffrey is a nature-loving nerd with a penchant for Star Wars and fast cars. A self-proclaimed Indiana Jones wannabe (right down to the irrational fear of snakes), he can be spotted digging through anthropology books in his spare time. Find him on Twitter  a href="https:  twitter.com Andrew_Jay" @andrew_jay  a  or in Earth Touch's 2-Minute Roundup series.  a href=" contributors contributor?mId=16948" VIEW more from this CONTRIBUTOR  a 
                          p 
 p Our planet is a busy, crazy place. And amidst all the noise, voices get lost and some stories are never heard. That’s especially true of our planet’s countless wild species: big and small, threatened and persecuted, complex and fascinating.  p 
 p For our growing team of writers and contributors, those are the stories that matter most: we dedicate our time to them all day and every day. In a world bursting with news, nature is our niche – and we love it that way.  p 
 p You, our viewers, are passionate about these stories we tell. Take your passion further by supporting and driving more of the nature news you know and love.  p 
 p Koala courtship habits are like a more honest, marsupial version of Tinder. Just add loud bellows that sound like a two-stroke lawn mower mixed with...  p 
 p Against all odds, an adorable success story is unfolding at Australia's Symbio Wildlife Park, where two young koala joeys are getting a second chance...  p 
 p A teenager in a rural part of Australia came home recently to find a koala “trying to drive” the family's Land Rover.  p 
 p Get the latest nature news, views and videos delivered to your inbox.  p 
