 p class="story-image__caption"  i class="fa fa-image story-image__icon"   i  SURVIVOR: Koolah was retrieved from a blackened tree on the Karuah fire ground. He's been transferred to Port Macquarie for care. Picture: Supplied.   p 
 p Much of the koala population in Port Stephens could have been killed in this week’s bushfire, wildlife carers say.  p 
 p More than 9000 hectares of koala habitat was burnt, with little hope of survivors.  p 
 p "It could very well have wiped them out," Port Stephens Koalas past president Sue Swain said.  p 
 p "The firies have told us they saw koalas running from the flames, but there was nothing they could do to save them."  p 
 p Rescuers have retrieved two koalas so far, one of them on the fire ground. br   p 
 p One, a male named Koolah, was found clinging to a burnt tree on the side of the Pacific Highway, near the Karuah turn-off.  p 
 p The 3-year-old Koolah will be important to the area’s koala population when he returns, given the possible losses in the fire.  p 
 p Port Stephens Koalas rescue and care co-ordinator Simone Aurino said Koolah had escaped the fire, but “he’s very ill with a chlamydial infection”. br   p 
 p “He’s got no habitat left, so he’s been transported today to Port Macquarie Koala Hospital,” Ms Aurino said.  p 
 p “He’ll have to stay there until his habitat regrows.”  p 
 p Ms Aurino said the fire and Koolah's care arrangement further demonstrated the need for a Port Stephens koala hospital.  p 
 p Meanwhile, she said the fire ground was "still active".  p 
 p “We’re expecting the animals that have been injured or displaced in the fire to start emerging shortly,” she said.  p 
 p class="story-image__caption"  i class="fa fa-image story-image__icon"   i  IN CARE: Young alpha male, Dungog Rob, came into care after he was hit by a car at Glen Oak, a short distance from the fire ground. He's sustained a broken nose and facial cuts. Picture: Sam Norris  p 
 p The other koala, Dungog Rob, was found at Glen Oak on Monday. The young alpha male was found quite a way from the fire where he was hit by a car.   p 
 p Rescuers believe he might have been smoked out.   p 
 p Time will tell if there are more koalas in need of rescue. The search for others hasn’t yet begun.  p 
 p “It’s usually a process that takes a while and we actually can’t get on the fire ground until it’s handed over from the fire brigade and deemed safe,” Ms Aurino said.   p 
 p Only then will the group's volunteers have the chance to survey the burnt area – a practice known as a black walk – to see how many koalas the fire might have claimed.  p 
 p "We can't do a black walk across 9000 hectares – it's too much," Mrs Swain said.  p 
 p "We can only hope to find some koalas alive around the edges."  p 
 p Please enter a valid email address  p 
 p class="newsletter-weekly__text" Sign up to receive our Breaking News Alerts and Editor's Daily Headlines featuring the best local news and stories.  p 
 p class="newsletter-weekly__links"  a href="https:  www.fairfaxmedia.com.au company privacy privacy" target="_blank" Privacy Policy  a  a href="https:  www.fairfaxmedia.com.au company conditions-of-use conditions-of-use" target="_blank" Terms and Conditions  a   p 
