 p class="featuredate" LAST UPDATED: 8 November 2018  p 
 p Australia is home to animals you can find hardly anywhere else on the planet: some nowhere else at all. Many of us have experienced wonder and delight when gazing — even in a photo — at animals like koalas, sugar gliders or spotted quolls, or have been lucky enough to hear the gurgling laughter of a kookaburra ring out across the bush.  p 
 p But our iconic animals are under threat. A disturbing  a href="http:  www.wwf.org.au news news 2017 tree-clearing-causing-queenslands-greatest-animal-welfare-crisis" rel="nofollow" report from WWF and RSPCA QLD  a  reveals that weakened tree-clearing laws in Queensland have placed these vulnerable animals right in the firing line.  strong Enormous swathes of forest are being destroyed — and without trees to provide homes and food, koalas and other native animals can't survive.   strong   p 
 p 300,000 hectares of precious bushland was destroyed in a single year, at last count.  p 
 p Native animals aren't the only victims of this demand for beef. The cows who are raised on that former habitat, and killed for meat, rarely make headlines.  p 
 p Unsurprisingly, the animal agriculture industry prefers to describe these sensitive, intelligent and social animals as the product itself — 'beef'. Some em thing  em , rather than  em someone  em .  p 
 p Because they know that when we see  b there's so much more to cows than burgers  b , it becomes hard to ignore the fact we're talking about thinking, feeling individuals.  p 
 p It's mostly demand for cattle grazing land that's destroying Queensland's forests. The good news is  b you have the power to help solve this problem, by cutting out or cutting back on meat.  b  br  br And not only is eating less or no meat exactly what Queensland's native animals desperately need us to do in order to save their homes and lives, it's  strong also key to curbing dangerous  a href="http:  www.animalsaustralia.org features lets-talk-about-climate-change.php" climate change  a   strong  and protecting our environment.  p 
 p Not to mention that with every tasty plant-based meal,  strong you can spare someone as sweet as  a href="http:  www.animalsaustralia.org features salvador-loves-cuddles.php" Salvador  a   strong  from seeing the inside of a  a href="http:  www.animalsaustralia.org features they-stabbed-babies " slaughterhouse  a .  p 
 p With 1 in 3 Australians already choosing to eat more plant-based meals or go completely vegetarian, you can join MILLIONS of people in enjoying delicious, healthy and compassionate food today!  p 
 p  em Reference:  em   a href="https:  www.dnrm.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0011 1397747 16-226j.pdf" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Queensland Government  a , (2015).  em Vegetation clearing rates in Queensland. Supplementary report to the Statewide Landcover and Trees Study Report 2012-14.  em    p 
