 p class="story-image__caption"  i class="fa fa-image story-image__icon"   i  "Little Ears" is in the care of WIRES volunteer Martine Moran. Photo: Marie Low  p 
 p Project Koala Gunnedah is calling on  a href="https:  www.nvi.com.au story 5956379 state-election-profiles-where-the-candidates-stand-on-the-big-issues ?cs=373" election candidates  a  to include the region's koalas in their future plans if elected on Saturday. br   p 
 p "As candidates prepare for the election on Saturday, we are asking them to keep in mind that koala numbers have declined rapidly in Gunnedah - the town known as the Koala Capital of the World," Project Koala Gunnedah chair Marie Low said.  p 
 p "We are in significant drought, and our thoughts are with the farmers battling to keep their stock and families fed.  p 
 p "This climate also has a devastating impact on koalas, who struggle to survive in the heat and cope without available water.  p 
 p "We will be looking to work with the successful candidate to give our koala population the best chance possible."  p 
 p  b Read also:  b   p 
 p Shooters, Fishers and Farmers candidate Jeff Bacon said he grew up seeing koalas every day on the Liverpool Plains and the native mammal holds "a special place in my heart".  p 
 p "We can't let these national treasures become extinct. We need to investigate ways we can sustain these populations," he said.  p 
 p "We want to see koala populations increasing and one way I think the government can do that is identify places where they naturally breed and concentrate on a regeneration project of the eucalypts they live on and in.  p 
 p "We have an obligation to those koalas and we should be looking after them."  p 
 p We will be looking to work with the successful candidate to give our koala population the best chance possible.  p 
 p A spokesperson from the office of Nationals' candidate Kevin Anderson said Mr Anderson had a "strong, solid commitment" to sustaining the region's koala population.  p 
 p Mr Anderson is chair of the NSW Parliamentary Friends of Landcare and in 2018 announced  a href="https:  www.nvi.com.au story 5477402 mayor-pleased-with-koala-park-state-budget-announcement " $6.48 million for a koala park in Gunnedah  a ,  a href="https:  www.nvi.com.au story 5495049 mp-invites-locals-to-help-save-our-species-with-new-funding " $106,000 in revegetation grants  a , and  a href="https:  www.nvi.com.au story 5706575 local-chosen-to-maintain-koala-water-drinkers-over-summer-project-koala " $30,000 for the Blinky Drinker project  a . br   p 
 p Independent candidate Mark Rodda said habitat was key to koalas' survival and wanted to see a focus from the state government on preserving it.  p 
 p "I think the state government should buyback Shenhua. The risk to groundwater is too great but also the risk to koala habitat is too great," he said.  p 
 p "We shouldn't be allowing further encroachment of an industry [mining] that may see the demise of the koala population. br   p 
 p "We're reducing their viable stocks of trees to the point that they will have nowhere to go.  p 
 p "Do we want to see the extinction of such a wonderful animal or do we want to try and work to live with it in harmony in its habitat?" br   p 
 p  b Read more:  b   a href="https:  www.nvi.com.au story 5818611 criticism-of-koala-report-backs-up-gunnedah-activists-concerns " Criticism of koala report backs up Gunnedah activist's concerns  a   p 
 p Gunnedah WIRES koala carer Martine Moran said as the drought continued, it was a critical time to keep koalas in mind when making decisions - whether it be about tree clearing, wildlife funding or providing care for our native species.  p 
 p "It's time for politicians to take a stand to help koalas," she said.  br   p 
 p "We need strong leaders who are prepared to fight on behalf of our native animals." br   p 
 p The  i NVI   i contacted Animal Justice's Emma Hall, Greens' Robin Gunning and Labor's Stephen Mears who did not respond before publication. br   p 
 p  a href="http:  www.nvi.com.au subscribe"  i  b Subscribe to receive all your local news, for only $2 per week.  b   i   a  br   p 
 p 
            Please note: All comments made or shown here are bound by the
            Online Discussion Terms &amp; Conditions.
          p 
 p 
            Please note: All comments made or shown here are bound by the
            Online Discussion Terms &amp; Conditions.
          p 
