 p class="p1"  span class="s1" South Australia has developed a strategy to help conserve and manage the koalas across our state.   span  span class="s2" This Strategy brings together government, the community, natural resource managers, experts and scientists to look at ways of working together to manage and conserve our koala population long into the future. We all have a role to play in implementing the Strategy’s actions.  span   p 
 p The South Australian Koala Conservation and Management Strategy addresses the key conservation and management issues which affect the health and welfare of koalas and their habitat, as well as outlining the actions that will help manage these impacts.  p 
 p Koalas face significant challenges from the impacts of development and subsequent destruction of their habitat. Other threats include mortality due to disease, vehicle collisions and attack by dogs, as well as issues arising from climate change and bushfires.    p 
 p class="p3" The Strategy guides how government and the wider community can:  p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s2" Koala conservation and management is something that we can all help to achieve by:  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s2" The South Australian Government does   span  span class="s3" not  span  span class="s2"  allow koalas to be culled.  span   p 
 p For more information please read through  a title="The South Australian Koala Conservation and Management Strategy" href=" files sharedassets public plants_and_animals koala-conservation-and-management-strategy-gen.pdf" target="_blank" The South Australian Koala Conservation and Management Strategy  a .  p 
 p We acknowledge and respect the Traditional Custodians whose ancestral lands we live and work upon and we pay our respects to their Elders past and present. We acknowledge and respect the deep spiritual connection and the relationship that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have to Country.  p 
 p We also pay our respects to the cultural authority of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and their nations in South Australia, as well as those across Australia.  p 
 p class="c-page-footer__smallprint"  a href=" copyright" Copyright © Department for Environment and Water 2017  a . All rights reserved.  p 
