 p style="text-align: center; padding:10px; margin-top:0; width: 100%;background: red; color: #FFF;font-size: 14px;font-weight: bold;"  a style="color: #FFF;text-decoration: underline;" href=" petition " Sign the petition: Stop the Harvesting of Crocodile Eggs  a   p 
 p The eucalyptus forests and woodlands of Australia’s east coast are disappearing quickly, with a significant loss occurring throughout our local area. Australia Zoo has identified the koala, an icon of this dwindling habitat, as an important conservation species. We believe the wild population of koalas is critically threatened and in need of our protection.  p 
 p Although not listed as endangered by any Australian state, the koala population has been devastated over the last hundred years and is currently under great threat due to urbanisation and massive, uncontrolled habitat destruction. The Australian Koala Foundation estimates that upwards of 80 percent of original koala habitat in Australia has been cleared since European settlement.  p 
 p Apart from the direct impact of displacing and killing koalas, habitat clearing increases pressure on remaining populations and disrupts the demographic structure as displaced animals try to establish new home ranges. This often leads to the demise of all populations. Continued clearing eventually leads to koala populations being isolated in small, fragmented parcels of land, totally cut off from other populations and extremely vulnerable to dog attacks and motor vehicle accidents.  p 
 p Bushfires are another major threat. Crown fires are devastating to koalas, as they become trapped at the top of trees and have the exposed skin areas on their hands, feet and face burnt, and they often succumb to smoke inhalation. Those that do survive often starve to death as their food supply may take several weeks to re-grow. Local extinctions occur because these devastated areas cannot get replenished.  p 
 p In addition to bushfires, habitat clearing, dog attacks and road accidents, between 2.5 and 3 million koalas were shot to supply the fur trade in America and Europe from the late 1800s to the early 1900s. In contrast to these astounding numbers, the current koala population is believed to be between 40,000 to 100,000 animals.  p 
 p To ensure the survival of koalas in the wild, we have purchased and will continue to purchase the largest tracts of land possible. We strongly recommend anyone with acreage or grazing properties to PLEASE protect eucalypt woodlands or plant eucalypts before it’s too late. Our own field studies show that koalas can easily exist on grazing land with the presence of a few trees; these remaining trees do not affect the grazing quality of the land. It is estimated that more than 80 percent of the remaining koala population occurs on private land that is not protected.  p 
 p Australia Zoo staff volunteer wherever possible on research projects involving the local koala populations.  p 
 p  a href=" our-animals amazing-animals mammals ?mammal=koalas&amp;animal=koala" Find out more about our amazing Koala  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  secure.australiazoo.com.au get-involved adopt-an-animal ?impulse=1&amp;animal=458" Adopt Bert  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  secure.australiazoo.com.au get-involved adopt-an-animal ?impulse=1&amp;animal=456" Adopt Koya  a   p 
 p    p 
 p  1638 Steve Irwin Way  br Beerwah, Qld, 4519  br + 61 (7) 5436 2000  br  a href="https:  www.australiazoo.com.au" www.australiazoo.com.au  a   p 
 p style="font-size: 12px;" Open Daily 9.00am - 5.00pm br  Closed Christmas Day br  Bedtime for some of our animals is 4:30pm.   p 
