 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p Lions are top-order predators, but conservation experts have recently classified the species as being 'Vulnerable' in the wild.  They estimate that only 16,000 to 30,000 are surviving in sub-Saharan Africa and in a small, isolated population in the Gir Forest in India.  p 
 p Lion habitat once also included northern Africa, south-west Asia, and Europe.  p 
 p Lion populations are continuing to decrease, as they are killed by farmers to protect livestock and as the supply of potential prey dwindles due to human impact on wildlife habitat.  p 
 p The new classification that lions are vulnerable to extinction has been determined by researchers working with the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN ‘red list’)  p 
 p An adult male lion stands just over a metre tall at the shoulder, is more than three metres long including his tail, and averages about 220kg in weight. Females are considerably smaller. Cubs are spotted, and sometimes a few spots remain into adulthood on the legs and belly.  p 
 p Adult male lions are noted for their dark mane, which becomes darker and fuller as the animal matures and becomes stronger. The mane apparently indicates strength and virility, as weaker males do not have such luxuriant manes.  p 
 p Lions are the only cats to live in a large family group, called a pride. A pride can be as large as 30–40 members and comprises mostly related females, their cubs and a small number of resident males.  p 
 p Dominating the pride is either a single male, or a coalition of males, usually brothers. Competition among males to take over a pride is intense, and on average the duration of a lion’s rule is two to three years.  p 
 p Lions are carnivorous and hunt a variety of prey including zebra, wildebeest, impala, buffalo and warthog. The pride hunts as a team, and generally it is the females who hunt to feed the pride.  p 
 p See them today in  strong  a href=" melbourne highlights lion-gorge" Lion Gorge at Melbourne Zoo  a   strong .  p 
 p Born 2016  p 
 p Male cub Zuberi is very bold and can be a bit pushy with his siblings when it comes to meal times. His name has Swahili origins and means 'strong',  a great match for his emerging personality!  p 
 p Born 2016  p 
 p Male cub Ndidi is very confident but a bit more laid back than his brother. His name means 'patience' in the Igbo language and he was also named by Zoo Members.  p 
 p On Wednesday, Melbourne Zoo transferred three of its most handsome animals - lion siblings Kashka, Kubwa and Kito - to their new home at Monarto Open Range Zoo in South Australia.  p 
 p The three young male African Lions that arrived at the Zoo in May turned two today.  p 
 p Carnivore Keeper Steve created a multi-layered ice birthday cake featuring favourite flavours, such as chicken, fish, milk, and blood, with two beef ribs as ‘candles’.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
