 p Bristol Zoo is home to two Asiatic lion brothers; Kamran and Ketan, who were both born on November 9th 2012. They enjoy to sun bathe and play with the enrichment they are given by their keepers, such as scented straw.  p 
 p The Asiatic lion has unfortunately been declared the most endangered large cat species in the world. Asiatic lions are from India, where there are thought to be only 350 left in the wild.  p 
 p  em You can now get even closer to our two lions with our brand new lion feeding experience.  a href="http:  www.bristolzoo.org.uk visitor-information animal-experiences lion-feeding-experience" Click here for more info  a .  em   p 
 p Lions are carnivores. Asiatic lions feed on wild pigs, cattle, antelope and deer in the wild. br   p 
 p Here at the Zoo, Kamran and Ketan are fed five kilos of meat throughout the week. The lions are not fed on set days or at set times as this reflects their natural behaviour in the wild where they would not successfully catch prey every day. They get a variety of joints, including ribs, leg and even the heads and tails! The joints have the fur on them and this helps provide the roughage that the lions needs in their diet.  p 
 p In the wild, Asiatic lions are found in only one place in the world; the Gir forest in India.  The Gir Forest is a dry deciduous forest in Gujarat, western India. Its wildlife sanctuary is 545 square miles with only the central 100 square miles completely protected as a National Park.  p 
 p About 7,500 Maldhari people and their 14,000 cattle live in the Forest Sanctuary, with a further 160,000 people and 100,000 cattle living within six miles of the Sanctuary.  p 
 p The population was estimated to be around 100 between 1968 and 1979 but is now thought to be more than double this. However, the forest is now approaching the limit of the number of lions that it can support and other safe havens for Asiatic lions in India are sorely needed.  p 
 p As there are so few Asiatic lions, it is necessary to manage the populations in human care and the wild if the species is to recover.  p 
 p Did you know you can adopt Kamran and Ketan? For a truly unique gift - whilst contributing to our conservation fund -  a href="http:  www.bristolzoo.org.uk visitor-information animal-adoptions" click here to adopt  a !  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 15952 0" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener" IUCN Red List species link  a   p 
 p Kamran and Ketan both love rolling in scented straw, anything from tapir bedding to lavendar to women's perfume!  p 
 p You can find our Asiatic lions near the Main Entrance, at the start of the Top Terrace br   p 
 p class="panel-body" Help us save endangered wildlife across the world.  p 
 p class="panel-body" Perfect for any animal lover or those friends &amp; family who have everything.  p 
 p class="panel-body" Sign up to our newsletter to recieve the latest zoo news.  p 
 p class="supporting-detail" Book online &amp; save on your admission tickets  p 
 p class="supporting-detail" style="margin: -10px 20px 0 20px; position: relative; z-index: 10;" Book online &amp; save on your admission tickets  p 
 p class="large-cta__tagline" Visit whenever you want  p 
 p class="large-cta__tagline" Online prices will always be cheaper  p 
 p class="leading leading--success" You are now on our mailing list!  p 
 p class="leading leading--success" Please fill in the missing fields  p 
 p class="leading" Sign up to our newsletter to receieve the latest zoo news.  p 
 p class="email-signup__terms-text" By signing up to the newsletter, you are agreeing to our
                             a href=" zoo-information privacy-policy" terms and conditions  a 
                            p 
