 p Wildfires don’t typically pose a significant threat to mountain lions, expert sprinters as well as long-distance travelers who are skilled at escaping such threats.  p 
 p But one study of Southern California mountain lions suggests that the increasing frequency and intensity of fires could reduce the animal’s habitat, which is already shrinking because of urbanization.  p 
 p  strong More on mountain lions:  strong   p 
 p Mountain lion expert Winston Vickers worked on both that study and one on mountain lion mortality in Orange, Riverside and San Diego counties. The mortality study, which looked at 36 mountain lion deaths from 2001 to 2013, found that just two cats died from fires.  p 
 p “They moved away from the fire as it moved,” Vickers said of the two fire fatalities. “Then they moved back into the fire area, burned their feet and died. They couldn’t hunt and probably starved to death. They didn’t get burns on the rest of their bodies.”  p 
 p In order to avoid firefighters, the two cats may have returned too early to the burn area, said Vickers, a veterinarian at the UC Davis Wildlife Health Center.  p 
 p “Mountains lions mostly dodge the fire pretty well unless they get caught in between two areas that are burning,” he said.  p 
 p The other study, which looked at the longer term effect of fires on cougars, found that wildfires create and reinvigorate deer grazing areas. That can increase deer populations, bolstering the favored prey of mountain lions and attracting the cats to those new and renewed grazing areas.  p 
 p But while they may make forays into more open areas while hunting, the notoriously stealthy mountain lions prefer more heavily vegetated terrain. The increase in wildfires poses a threat to that.  p 
 p “Fire-inducing habitat changes in an urbanizing landscape will reduce the quality or availability of puma habitat in an ecosystem where their persistence is already threatened by urbanization and habitat fragmentation,” according to the study.  p 
 p  em Distributed by Tribune Content Agency  em   p 
