 p class="latin" Panthera leo  p 
 p  a href="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-2.jpg"  img class="alignright size-full wp-image-3190 negmargin" src="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-2.jpg" alt="Male lion" width="297" height="404" srcset="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-2.jpg 297w, https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-2-220x300.jpg 220w" sizes="(max-width: 297px) 100vw, 297px"   a Living in the grasslands, scrub, and open woodlands of sub-Saharan Africa, the lion is the second largest cat in the world. It is dwarfed slightly by the tiger, which is closely related and has a very similar body type.  p 
 p Unlike other cats, lions are very social animals. They live in groups, called prides, of around 30 lions. A pride consists of up to three males, a dozen related females, and their young. The size of the pride is determined by the availability of food and water. If resources are scarce, the pride becomes smaller.  p 
 p Pride members keep track of one another by roaring. Both males and females have a very powerful roar that can be heard up to 8 km (5 mi.) away.  p 
 p Males and females take on very different roles in the pride. Male lions spend their time guarding their territory and their cubs. They maintain the boundaries of their territory, which can be as large as 260 sq. km (100 sq. mi.), by roaring, marking it with urine, and chasing off intruders. Their thick manes, a unique trait to male lions, protect their necks when they fight with challengers.  p 
 p  a href="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion.jpg"  img class="size-medium wp-image-3188 alignleft" src="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-300x199.jpg" alt="Big male lion" width="300" height="199" srcset="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion-300x199.jpg 300w, https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion.jpg 425w" sizes="(max-width: 300px) 100vw, 300px"   a Female lions are the primary hunters of the group. They are smaller and more agile than males. But since their prey is still generally faster than them, they use teamwork to bring an animal down. Fanning out, they form a semicircle, with the smaller, weaker lionesses herding the prey towards the center. Then the stronger females knock the animal down and make the kill.  p 
 p Lions usually hunt at night. Their prey includes antelopes, buffaloes, zebras, young  a title="African Elephant" href="https:  animalfactguide.com animal-facts african-elephant " elephants  a , rhinos,  a title="Hippopotamus" href="https:  animalfactguide.com animal-facts hippopotamus " hippos  a , wild hogs, crocodiles and  a title="Giraffe" href="https:  animalfactguide.com animal-facts giraffe " giraffes  a . But they also sometimes eat smaller prey like mice, birds, hares, lizards, and tortoises. They are not above stealing kills from other carnivores, like hyenas, wild dogs,  a title="Cheetah" href="https:  animalfactguide.com animal-facts cheetah " cheetahs  a , and leopards, or scavenging spoiled meat.  p 
 p After a successful hunt, all the lions in the pride share the meal. But there is a pecking order, with the adult males taking first claim, followed by the lionesses, and finally, the cubs.  p 
 p Lions have a fast-working digestive system, which allows them to gorge themselves and then go for seconds shortly after. If available, they will drink water everyday. But they can go 4-5 days without drinking by obtaining moisture from the stomach contents of their prey.  p 
 p Spending 16-20 hours of the day sleeping or resting, lions are the laziest of the big cats. They can be found lying on their backs with their feet up or taking a snooze up in a tree. While lazing around, they are very affectionate towards one another, rubbing heads, grooming, and purring.  p 
 p Lionesses give birth to 2-3 cubs at a time. Usually a couple females give birth around the same time. The cubs are then raised together, sometimes nursing communally.  p 
 p  a href="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion3.jpg"  img class="size-medium wp-image-3189 alignright" src="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion3-300x199.jpg" alt="Lioness with cubs" width="300" height="199" srcset="https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion3-300x199.jpg 300w, https:  animalfactguide.com wp-content uploads 2013 01 lion3.jpg 425w" sizes="(max-width: 300px) 100vw, 300px"   a Vulnerable to predators like hyenas, leopards, and black-backed jackals, cubs have a 60-70% mortality rate. They are sometimes trampled by large animals like buffaloes. Furthermore, when another group of male lions takes over a pride, they kill all the cubs so they can sire their own with the lionesses.  p 
 p Female cubs stay with the group as they age. At around two years old, they become capable hunters. But young males are forced out of the pride at that age. They form bachelor groups and follow migrating herds until they are strong enough to challenge male lions of other prides. In general, a group of males stays in power in the pride for around three years before another bachelor group takes it over.  p 
 p African lions are considered vulnerable of extinction by the  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 15951 0" target="_blank" IUCN Red List  a . They are threatened by loss and fragmentation of habitat. They are also killed by humans in bravery rituals, as hunting trophies, for medicinal powers, or by ranchers protecting their livestock. Furthermore, they are susceptible to tick-borne diseases like canine distemper and babesia. Distemper is spread to lions by neighboring village dogs as well as hyenas. Babesia occurs during droughts, when malnourished prey is vulnerable to disease. The ticks spread to the lions after they kill the sick animal. The combination of distemper and babesia causes mass fatalities in lion populations.  p 
 p You can help save lions by writing a  a href="http:  kids.nationalgeographic.com kids activities letters-to-lions " target="_blank" Letter to Lions  a  that will be shared with African leaders. Share why lions are important to you and include a drawing if you like. You can also donate to charities like  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals big-cats cause-an-uproar kids " target="_blank" National Geographic’s Big Cat Initiative  a ,  a href="http:  www.panthera.org programs lion project-leonardo" target="_blank" Panthera’s Project Leonardo  a , or the  a href="http:  www.awf.org content action detail 3599" target="_blank" African Wildlife Foundation  a .  p 
 p id="caption-attachment-3208" class="wp-caption-text" Lions inhabit the grasslands, shrub, and open woodlands of sub-Saharan Africa. A small population also lives in India’s Gir Forest.  p 
 p  strong Abi Cushman  strong  is a contributing editor of Animal Fact Guide and  a href="http:  www.myhouserabbit.com " My House Rabbit  a . When she's not writing about weird animals or pet rabbits online, she writes and illustrates funny books for kids [about weird animals and rabbits].  Her debut picture book,  cite Soaked  cite , comes out in Summer 2020 from Viking Children's Books. br 
               br 
				Learn more at her website,  a href="http:  www.abicushman.com " target="_blank" www.abicushman.com  a , or follow her on Twitter:  a href="http:  www.twitter.com abicushman" target="_blank" @abicushman  a   and Instagram:  a href="http:  www.instagram.com abi.cushman" target="_blank" @abi.cushman  a             p 
 p Last updated on August 24, 2014.  p 
 p style="text-align: center; margin-bottom: 7px;"  strong Share this animal article:  strong   p 
 p class="adlabel"  a href=" advertisements" Advertisement  a   p 
 p Rhino and Oxpecker share a symbiotic relationship – each helping the other out – in these modern thank you cards by  a href="http:  www.grizzlybeargreetings.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener" Grizzly Bear Greetings  a .  a href="https:  www.etsy.com listing 79816113 animal-thank-you-card-set-rhino-cards" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Buy Now!  a   p 
 p class="adlabel"  a href=" advertisements" Advertisement  a   p 
 p class="adlabel"  a href="https:  www.animalfactguide.com advertisements" Advertisement  a   p 
 p ©  a href="http:  www.animalfactguide.com"  strong Animal Fact Guide  strong   a   2007 - 2019.  br 
			     a href="http:  www.brownbearcreative.com" Responsive Website Design by Brown Bear Creative  a   p 
