 p African lions are the biggest of the African carnivores.  p 
 p Color is tawny to sandy brown.  p 
 p The long tail has a distinctive black tuft at the tip.  p 
 p The adult males have manes which vary in color from tawny to black.  p 
 p The head is large with a heavy muzzle.  p 
 p The pattern of spots at the roots of the whiskers is unique to each individual lion.  p 
 p  u  b African lion anatomy  b   u   p 
 p  b Male  b   br   p 
 p  b Female  b  br   p 
 p Shoulder height  p 
 p 1,2 meters br   p 
 p 90 centimeters br   p 
 p Weight br   p 
 p 190 kilograms br   p 
 p 130 kilograms br   p 
 p African lions have no specific habitat preference so they can be encountered anywhere, except in forests.   p 
 p African lion
 habitats include -  br   p 
 p The hunting techniques of lions are more successful in long grass and thick bush.  p 
 p The will try to stalk the prey to within 20 meters using the cover they have available.  p 
 p Lion prides with a rich, reliable food supply can afford to be 
territorial.   p 
 p When food supply is unpredictable the prides have huge home
 ranges that are too large to defend.   p 
 p In these cases encounters between 
lions from different prides are very hostile, but actual fighting is 
rare.  p 
 p Both lions and lionesses signal their occupation of an area by scent marking with urine and by roaring.   p 
 p Roars
 can carry for a good 8 km and advertises a lion’s location.   p 
 p It also 
shows that an area is occupied and allows pride members to keep track of
 one another.   p 
 p They feed on medium and large sized prey. br   p 
 p Examples of prey are buffalo, wildebeest, zebra and gemsbok.  p 
 p They will however also take a large range  even down to the size of mice.  p 
 p Lions can run at about 60 kilometers per hour, which is too slow to catch antelope in an open chase.   p 
 p Lion
 attacks are more successful in long grass and thick bush, when the 
target is alone and when they are able to stalk close, and on very dark 
nights.   p 
 p Chases longer than 300 meters are rare.   p 
 p Lion usually 
kills by a strangling throat hold or by clamping its mouth over the 
muzzle of the prey.  p 
 p The basic unit of lion 
social life is a pride.    p 
 p The classic lion pride consists of 2 to 12 
closely related females and their cubs.  p 
 p African lions are the only cats which have close-knit social groups and 
the only ones that regularly hunt in groups.    p 
 p Usually 1 to 6 adult male lions that are often closely related to 
each other attend to the females.   p 
 p The lionesses form the stable core of 
the pride while the males are exchanged every few years.   p 
 p The 
reason why lions are so sociable range from-   p 
 p If a small group of males stay together they are able to drive out 
the resident males of a pride and will so take over the females.   p 
 p These
 displaced male lions are not likely to live long since they no longer 
have the luxury of females available to hunt for them.   p 
 p After a takeover the new males will also kill any lion cubs in the pride.   p 
 p A male and female away from the pride are probably mating, which 
guarantees constant action.   p 
 p A lioness becomes sexually receptive for two 
to four days about once every two years.  p 
 p  The pride males detect her 
condition by scent.   p 
 p Lions may mate hundreds of times during the three- to four-day 
estrous of the female.   p 
 p Mating occurs about four times an hour over a 
period of one to two days and lasts for less than a minute each time.  p 
 p style="text-align: left;" This
 prodigious frequency probably stems from the high failure rate of 
matings. Only, about one in three copulations results in cubs.   p 
 p By being difficult to inseminate, females are probably ensuring that they conceive to a healthy male.   p 
 p African
 males lions play a critical role in protecting cubs from intruding 
males.   p 
 p For the lioness it provides a level of assurance in that the more
 persistent the male lion is, the greater likelihood that the male will 
stick around until the cubs are grown.   p 
 p Male lions within a pride 
do not compete for matings.   p 
 p The female may turn her attentions to one of
 the other pride males as each loses interest in her.   p 
 p This 
abundance of sexual opportunities keeps male rivalry at low levels 
within a pride.   p 
 p Savage and sometimes-fatal fights can however occur if 
an intruding male is encountered.  p 
 p  b Lion cubs  b   p 
 p Did you know that after a group of African lion males takes over a pride they will kill all  a href="https:  www.africa-wildlife-detective.com lion-cubs.html" onclick="return FIX.track(this);" lion cubs  a  currently in the pride?  p 
 p After mating you may see both male and female roll on the ground, groom or rub against each other.   p 
 p To avoid the heat of 
the day African lions are most active at night.   p 
 p Lions sleep away most of
 the day because it is usually too hot to hunt.   p 
 p Sunlight also foils most
 efforts to sneak up on prey.   p 
 p The hunting style is classic feline with a stalk to within 20 meters and a chase that is usually not longer than 200 meters.  p 
 p They prey is pulled down and usually killed with  a suffocating bite of the throat.  p 
 p They often hunt in groups. This will depend on the difficulty of the hunt.  p 
 p If it is a large difficult prey they will need to cooperate to bring it down.  p 
 p Cooperative hunting  increase their success rates.  p 
 p  u Single lioness  u  br   p 
 p  u Group of 7  u  u  lions  u  br   p 
 p 0,28 kills per hunt br   p 
 p 0,75 kills per hunt br   p 
 p They are extremely aggressive 
while feeding - snarling, pawing and snapping at one another.   p 
 p The pride 
males dominate the females, and may drive them off the kill.  p 
 p Food is energy required for survival.   p 
 p The 
only way to secure food is to fight for it which means aggression is the
 norm at feeding time.  p 
 p In many prides African lion males do not hunt.  p 
 p The reason for this is that their manes and 
large size make them more conspicuous and less successful in the hunts than 
lionesses.    p 
 p The result is that these males live mainly off the efforts of their females.   p 
 p They use their dominant status to take food from the females.   p 
 p This
 does not however mean that male lions lack in hunting skills.   p 
 p Males 
have to fend for themselves both before they take over a pride and after
 they have been displaced from one.   p 
 p Young males may form small bachelor groups that hunt together.   p 
 p Lone 
males are restricted to smaller, easier prey such as warthogs and 
porcupines and the young of other species.   p 
 p When you see old, solitary males that are peppered with black spots it is most probably scars from porcupine quills.  br   p 
 p The estimated population of lions in Africa at the end of 2014 is estimated at about 
34,000.  p 
 p Important to understand is that this means about 50 percent of them have disappeared during the last three decades.  p 
 p In parts of West Africa they have nearly disappeared totally.  p 
 p The reasons they are in trouble is because of habitat loss and and human-lion conflict.  p 
 p The African lion has for a very long time been a symbol of strength, nobility and power.   p 
 p Now their conservation status indicates that they need our help to survive.  p 
 p Please get involved by sharing this page with your friends. br   p 
