 p South Africa is one of the world's natural gems; a treasure nestled at the southern tip of the abundant African continent. Visitors from all around the world descend on the country to take advantage of the stunning climate,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com capetown-accommodation.php" class="near_match" accommodation  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com capetown-hotels.php" class="near_match" hotels  a , game reserves, natural attractions, and, of course, the huge variety of wildlife.  p 
 p The landscapes of South Africa offer the full spectrum of habitat types (from dense green forests to arid deserts, and everything in-between), making them ideal for thousands of species. These include exciting predators, birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians and a huge variety of fascinating insects. These different species are found in plentiful abundance in the  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com game_lodges_nationwide_south_afr.htm" game reserves and national parks  a  of the country, as well as in the wild and natural countryside, where they live free.  p 
 p The Big 5 is one of the main attractions to South Africa in terms of its wildlife. This group includes the African Elephant, Cape Buffalo, Lion, Black Rhino, and Leopard. This combination of predator and mighty terrestrial mammals makes for a once-in-a-lifetime sighting of some of the world’s most impressive species.  p 
 p class="col col_50 pad_20l"  strong Want to see South African wildlife in their natural habitat?   strong  br Although the whole country is renowned for its proliferation of wildlife species, there are certain parks and reserves that are must-sees for those wanting an up-close-and-personal experience with these animals in their natural habitat.  p 
 p The African Elephant is the largest living land mammal, one of the most impressive animals on earth. The Elephant's muscular trunk serves as a nose, hand, extra foot, signaling device and a tool for gathering food, siphoning water, dusting, digging and a variety of other functions. The long trunk ...  p 
 p Buffalo are extremely large, ox-like animals. Standing approximately 65 inches at the shoulder, adult males have a mass of up to 1760 pounds and females weigh up to 1650 pounds. To support the large body, the legs are very heavy. Front hooves are larger than the hind because of the extra mass they...  p 
 p Lions are the second largest members of the feline family in the world. Lion are tan in colour and have a slightly white under-body, with a tuft of black hair at the end of their tails. Most cats live a solitary existence, but the lion is an exception. It has developed a social system based on teamwork...  p 
 p The rhinoceros is a large, primitive looking mammal that in fact dates from the Miocene era millions of years ago. In recent decades rhinos have been relentlessly hunted to the point of near extinction. Since 1970 the world rhino population has declined by 90 percent, with five species remaining in the world...  p 
 p The most secretive and elusive of the large carnivores, the leopard is also the shrewdest. Pound for pound, it is the strongest climber of the larger cats and is capable of killing prey far larger than itself. The coloring of the leopard varies from white to bright golden brown, spotted with black spots and...  p 
 p There are about 230 mammal species to be found in South Africa, which include a collection of impressive predators. These make for fabulous sightings on any game drive or safari. Of these hundreds of species, there are two that are critically endangered (De Winton's Golden Mole and the Riverine Rabbit) and 11 that are endangered (including the  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife wildlife_wilddog.php" African Wild Dog  a , the  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife wildlife_zebra.php" Mountain Zebra  a , Sei Whale and Blue Whale). These numbers are in line with the IUCN statistics.  p 
 p Endemic mammals include the Cape Elephant Shrew, Cape Mole-rat, Cape Grysbok, Bontebok, Cape Kudu, Springbok and the Cape Horseshoe Bat.  p 
 p Marine mammals are a major draw-card to South Africa, thanks to its extensive shoreline. Dolphins can frequently be seen frolicking along the coast, swimming in schools of up to 200 or 300 individuals. Whales (such as the Humpback and Southern Right whales) appear along the local coast between July and December, and promise fabulous performances for those on the shore or on formal whale-watching tours.  p 
 p South Africa is home to approximately 175 endemic  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife south_africa_birdlife.htm" bird species  a , as well as hundreds more species. Notable endemic varieties include the  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_black_oystercatcher.php" Black Oystercatcher  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_blue_crane.php" Blue Crane  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_cape_parrot.php" Cape Parrot  a , Cape Vulture, Forest Canary, Ground Woodpecker,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_jackal_buzzard.php" Jackal Buzzard  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_knysna_lourie.htm" Knysna Turaco  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_namaqua_sandgrouse.php" Namaqua Sandgrouse  a , Protea Seedeater,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_southern_bald_ibis.php" Southern Bald Ibis  a ,  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com wildlife birds_pale_chanting_goshawk.php" Southern Pale Chanting Goshawk  a , Whitebacked Mousebird, and the Yellow-breasted Pipit.  p 
 p Avian enthusiasts are well-rewarded when they visit this country, and are reminded to bring their binoculars and identification aids.  p 
 p The wild side of Africa is intriguing and wondrous, presenting fascinating species. Some look prehistoric, others frightening, but all are important contributors to the local biodiversity. The reptiles that are endemic to this country include the Geometric Tortoise, Speckled Padloper, Southern Adder, Giant Girdled Lizard, and the Cape Legless Skink.  p 
 p Amphibians that can only be found in South Africa include the Table Mountain Ghost Frog, Knysna Spiny Reed Frog, and Mistbelt Chirping Frog.  p 
 p Start planning your wildlife adventure to South Africa here: Accommodation on SA-Venues.com is presented complete with reviews, photo galleries and online booking functionality, but allows you to deal directly with each establishment represented. You will be spoilt for choice as the options for  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com accommodation_south_africa.htm" accommodation in South Africa  a  are varied and include excellent  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com hotels_south_africa.htm" hotels  a , game lodges, guest houses, smaller B&amp;Bs and and many self catering options for you to choose from, such as holiday homes, cottages and apartments. Enjoy your travel planning.  p 
 p To learn more about the individual wildlife species that can be enjoyed whilst visiting a  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com game_lodges_nationwide_south_afr.htm" game reserve in South Africa  a  and enjoy the wildlife photos in the galleries please use the menu on the left or browse through the information provided above.  p 
 p The 4500 ha private game reserve Thula Thula is situated only 45 minutes from Richards Bay harbour and airport, and less than 2 hours drive from ...  p 
 p The Bongani Mountain Lodge is beautifully located in the shadows of the Malelane Mountain range in the 8 000 hectares of the Mthetomusha Game Res...  p 
 p Situated in the heart of the malaria-free Northern Cape Province, Tswalu Kalahari Reserve is the ultimate safari experience. Explore Tswalu with ...  p 
 p Jabulani Safari is a five star Relais &amp; Chateaux accredited luxury lodge offering an extraordinary African experience. Camp Jabulani has an authe...  p 
 p Great Fish River Lodge is located in the magnificent malaria-free Eastern Cape, Kwandwe Game Reserve and is within easy reach of South Africa’s b...  p 
 p Bayethe Tented Lodge offers fully inclusive luxury accommodation in Shamwari Game Reserve. Here you can enjoy a totally tranquil safari experienc...  p 
 p Located in a remote and untouched part of the Kariega wilderness, Settlers Drift Lodge offers a unique tented safari combined with 5-star luxury....  p 
 p Jock Safari Lodge is the first private lodge set in the heart of Africa's premier wildlife reserve, the Kruger National Park. Situated in the sou...  p 
 p Shumbalala, rebuilt and refurbished and awarded 5 stars by the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa, Big Five Country in the Heart of the 1100...  p 
 p The incomparable thrill of quietly observing a passing herd of elephant while being served tea on the verandah of a stately Colonial manor house ...  p 
 p Simbavati Hilltop Lodge offers game lodge accommodation in luxury safari tents. This is a fabulous spot for a romantic getaway where you can enjo...  p 
 p Nestling on the banks of the Bushman’s River with a breathtaking vista of rolling African plains, lies HillsNek Safaris. An exclusive-use safari ...  p 
 p This Big 5 game lodge is located high up in the wild secluded hills of the 23 000ha Zululand Rhino Reserve, with spectacular views overlooking a ...  p 
 p Entabeni is a private game reserve situated within the Limpopo Province of South Africa in the game-rich Welgevonden area. This is a convenient s...  p 
 p Situated in the Southern portion of the 65,000-hectare Sabi Sand Game Reserve, an area well known for its high concentration of wildlife through ...  p 
 p class="f8" SA-Venues.com has been assisting travellers with their South Africa travel plans since 1999, and is the largest, independent online travel guide for South Africa available in both English and German.  p 
 p class="f8 pad_25t pad_25b" SA-Venues.com © 1999-2019. All Rights Reserved. Find and book hotels and accommodation in South Africa.  a href="https:  www.sa-venues.com sitemap.htm" Sitemap  a   span class="lg-icon"   span   p 
