 p style="text-align: center;" Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live in grasslands and savannahs. Males are larger than females with a weigh up to 250 kg. In addition, male lions have mane, which is perhaps the most recognizable feature of the species. Both sexes have hairy tufts at the end of their tails. They can eat up to 8 kg of meat.  p 
 p The lion's mane is the most recognizable feature of the species. The mane starts growing when lions are about one year old. Mane color varies and darkens with age. Research results indicate that environmental factors, such as average temperature, influence the mane's color and size. Mane length apparently signals fighting success in male-male relationships. Darker-maned individuals may have longer reproductive lives and higher offspring survival. The main purpose of the mane is to protect the lion's neck and throat in territorial fights with rivals.  p 
 p Lions are the only social member of the cat (Felidae) family. They live in large groups called "pride" typically consisting of around 15 lions, including several adult females and up to four males and their cubs of both sexes. Male cubs are excluded from the pride when they reach maturity at around 2–3 years of age.  p 
 p Lions within a pride are often affectionate and, when resting, seem to enjoy good fellowship with lots of touching, head rubbing, licking and purring. The males are territorial and will roar and use scent markings to establish their domains.  p 
 p Females do almost all of the hunting. They are mainly nocturnal and work in teams to stalk and ambush prey.  p 
 p Lions are carnivorous - they consume a wide variety of prey from big (zebra, giraffe, impala) to small animals (birds, hares, reptiles).  p 
 p The lion population in Africa has been reduced by half since the early 1950s. Today, fewer than 21,000 remain in all of Africa.  p 
 p Humans are pushing lions out of their natural habitat, which leads to the human-lion conflict to increase. Lions are also still being killed in rituals of bravery, as hunting trophies or for medicinal purposes.  p 
 p African Wildlife Foundation has taken measures to conserve the lion, in which include mitigating human-lion conflict and tracking cats for conservation.  p 
 p Lions spend much of their time resting and are inactive for about 20 hours per day.  p 
 p We have hundreds of animals in our park from over 100 species, including some of the rarest and endangered.  p 
 p Not only are we one of the leading wildlife conservations in Indonesia, we are devoted to caring for the animals in our own safari. We ensure the highest standards of wellbeing is given to all our animals.  p 
 p Browse below to see the animals that we have given a loving home to.  p 
 p The world's largest land mammals gather in groups and are led by females! It requires them to drink 150 litres of water per day to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live [...]  p 
 p The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek: which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African [...]  p 
 p The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, [...]  p 
 p Tigers are as majestic as they appear. The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of [...]  p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali – Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show   Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Theme Park  p 
 p  strong Bali Safari &amp; Marine Park  strong   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Green Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com "  strong Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" Copyright © 2019. br All rights reserved.  p 
