 p Stop the Killing  p 
 p Stop the Trafficking   p 
 p Stop the Demand  p 
 p Stop the Killing  p 
 p Stop the Trafficking   p 
 p Stop the Demand  p 
 p class="subhead white" DONATE  p 
 p class="uc brown small nomargin" Conservation Status:  p 
 p class="uc" Quick Facts  p 
 p Panthera Leo  p 
 p 125 to 272 kilograms (277 to 600 pounds)  p 
 p 1.2 meters at the shoulder (48 inches) and about 2 to 3.3 meters in length (7 to 11 feet)  p 
 p 10 to 18 years in the wild. Up to 30 years in captivity.  p 
 p Grassy plains and open woodlands  p 
 p Carnivorous  p 
 p Average about 109 days  p 
 p Humans  p 
 p class="us" Habitat  p 
 p They can be found in savannas, plains, grasslands, dense bush, and woodlands.  p 
 p class="small" 
 span class="left" Tags:  a href=" wildlife-conservation lion" Lion  a ,  a href=" country " Benin  a ,  a href=" country botswana" Botswana  a ,  a href=" country burkina-faso" Burkina Faso  a ,  a href=" country cameroon" Cameroon  a ,  a href=" country drc" DRC  a ,  a href=" country kenya" Kenya  a ,  a href=" country mozambique" Mozambique  a ,  a href=" country namibia" Namibia  a ,  a href=" country niger" Niger  a ,  a href=" country south-africa" South Africa  a ,  a href=" country south-sudan" South Sudan  a ,  a href=" country tanzania" Tanzania  a ,  a href=" country uganda" Uganda  a ,  a href=" country zambia" Zambia  a ,  a href=" country zimbabwe" Zimbabwe  a ,  a href=" landscape kazungula" Kazungula  a ,  a href=" landscape kilimanjaro" Kilimanjaro  a ,  a href=" landscape limpopo" Limpopo  a ,  a href=" landscape maasai-steppe" Maasai Steppe  a ,  a href=" landscape samburu" Samburu  a ,  a href=" landscape zambezi" Zambezi  a ,  a href=" region east-africa" East Africa  a ,  a href=" region southern-africa" Southern Africa  a   span 
 span class="right"  a href="#" class="active" rel="zoom" data-zoom="4" View Africa  a  |  a href="#" rel="zoom" data-zoom="6" Habitat  a 
  span 
  p 
 p class="us" Physical Characteristics  p 
 p They are the second largest living cats after tigers. Malez are unique among the cat species for their thick mane of brown or black hair encircling their head and neck. The mane darkens with age, and the thicker and darker a mane is the healthier the lion. Both males and females roar—a sound heard as far as 8 kilometers away.  p 
 p class="us" Behavior &amp; Diet  p 
 p Antelope, zebra, and wildebeests are common prey for this big cat. However, scavenged food provides more than 50 percent of their diets—lions will often take over kills made by other carnivores—and cooperative hunting enables them to take down prey as large as buffaloes, rhinos, hippos, and giraffes. The lioness does 85 to 90 percent of the hunting, usually by setting up an ambush for its prey. The kill is not shared equally within a pride, and at times of prey scarcity, high juvenile mortality rates occur, as hungry females may not even share with their offspring.  p 
 p While most cat species are solitary, the lion is an exception. It has developed a social system based on teamwork, division of labor, and an extended family unit. The average pride consists of about 15 individuals, with five to 10 females, their young, and two or three territorial males. These are usually brothers or pride mates who have formed a coalition to protect their females.  p 
 p When resting, which may be up to 20 hours a day, lions seem to enjoy good fellowship with lots of touching, head rubbing, licking, and purring.  p 
 p Usually, two or more females in a pride give birth around the same time, and the cubs are raised together. Some mothers carefully nurture their young and will even permit other cubs other to suckle, sometimes enabling a neglected infant to survive. However, at times, a lioness may also neglect or abandon her cubs, especially if food is scarce.  p 
 p This cat’s populations are steadily decreasing in the wild. In just two decades, Africa’s population has decreased 43 percent and it is estimated that as few as 23,000 remain. One of the main causes is the alarming rate at which they are losing their habitats due to expanding human populations and the resulting growth of agriculture, settlements, and roads.  p 
 p Due to habitat loss, lions are being forced into closer quarters with humans. This, coupled with decrease in their natural prey, causes them to attack livestock. In turn, farmers oftentimes retaliate and kill these majestic big cats.  p 
 p Lions are being killed in rituals of bravery, as hunting trophies, and for their perceived medicinal and magical powers.  p 
 p class="subhead" Our solutions to conserving the lion:  p 
 p Retaliation is the primary reason for lion killings. We work with communities to help them realize the big cat’s value and to help them protect their families and livestock from carnivore predation. In Ruaha National Park, where 10 percent of the world’s remaining population can be found, AWF’s Ruaha Carnivore Project is fostering a much-needed shift in the local opinion of carnivores.  p 
 p Since 2012, AWF has been working with Ruaha’s communities to build livestock enclosures to protect livestock from predation, and, in turn, protect lions and other carnivores from retaliatory killing. In addition, Ruaha Carnivore Project provides community benefits to villages that demonstrate success in living peacefully with carnivores.  p 
 p African Wildlife Foundation’s researchers are working to gain an understanding of carnivores’ populations, behaviors, movements, and interactions with people in order to develop appropriate conservation actions. Since 2002, our Large Carnivore Research Project has undertaken research aimed at ensuring the continued survival of large predators living around Botswana, Namibia, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.  p 
 p With the continental population decreasing and threats continuing to mount, it’s become more important than ever to closely track this species. In Tanzania’s Manyara Ranch, AWF tagged the lions with high-tech collars equipped with radio transmitters to track the animals’ natural movements. This allows scientists and conservationists to monitor for potential disease outbreaks, home range, productivity, behavior, habitat use, survival, predator-prey interactions, and ultimately population estimates.  p 
 p We’re facing a shortfall. Don’t let elephants pay the price.  u Give now to help raise $105,861.  u   p 
 p  a href="https:  secure.awf.org fy19lifeboat?utm_source=1902lifeboatinterior&amp;utm_medium=web&amp;utm_campaign=fy19lifeboat&amp;ms=B19A20E02W" &gt; Donate now  a   p 
 p class="subhead brown"  a href=" news kaddu-sebunya-lead-awf" Kaddu Sebunya to Lead AWF  a   p 
 p class="subtext"  span class="date-display-single" January 15, 2019  span   p 
 p class="brown" The African Wildlife Foundation is excited to announce the appointment of Mr. Kaddu Kiwe Sebunya as the new Chief Executive Officer...  p 
 p style="margin-top: -1.25rem"  a class="italic carrot" href=" news kaddu-sebunya-lead-awf" Read more  a   p 
 p News  p 
 p class="italic orange text-right" ›View Gallery  p 
 p class="subhead" 
	Become a member  p 
 p 
	Join African Wildlife Foundation as a member for just $25. Your partnership is vital to our mission to protect Africa’s most precious - and imperiled - creatures.  p 
 p 
	 a class="btn golden" href="https:  secure.awf.org membership" Join Now  a   p 
 p class="subhead" Spread the word i class="sprite share-orange right"   i   p 
 p 
	 span class="red" Note:  span  We’ll need to convert your donation to USD for processing, so you’ll see this amount through checkout. You will still be charged in your native currency.  p 
 p 
	With your donation you'll receive:  p 
