 p Lions are one of Africa’s most recognizable animals and for good reason: more than any other animal in the African wilderness, lions signify courage, strength and power. The ancient Egyptians saw these traits in the wild lions of Africa and used them as symbols in their own culture—the legendary sphinx features the head of a human and the body of a lion, for example.  p 
 p Here at Lion World Travel the lion is the center of our brand and the name for our particular lion is "Lionel". In addition to the symbolizing strength and courage, he also embodies playfulness: take a close look at our logo and you will notice that Lionel’s tongue is lolling lazily out of his mouth. Read on for more amazing lion facts!  p 
 p Of all the big cat species in the world, lions are the most social. They live together in large groups known as "prides". The size of a pride can range in size from 15 to 40 members. These prides include multiple adult males, a dozen or more related females and the pride's cubs. In general, the more members a pride has, the stronger it is relative to rival prides. The pride’s females also prefer to have more males in the pride as this helps to ensure the survival of their cubs.  p 
 p Male lions may get all of the attention with their majestic manes, but the females do the majority of the work when it comes to hunting. Anywhere from 85-90% of the hunting is done by the females in a given pride. The males, meanwhile, protect both the pride and the pride's territory (which can extend up to 100 square miles) from rival prides and other predators. Even though females do the vast majority of the hunting, male lions usually get to eat first!  p 
 p Lions can go up to four days without drinking water, but they need to eat everyday. Adult female lions need to eat about 11 pounds of meat each day, while adult males eat 16 pounds or more every day. And while lions primarily prey on large herbivores such as zebra, wildebeest and buffalo, they have been known to prey on smaller animals.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  img alt="A lion shows of its claws" src=" sites default files Lion-Claws.jpg"  br  em A lion shows off its claws. Photo by Lion World Travel guest Tom Piccin.  em   p 
 p A lion has many physical characteristics that make it a superb hunter. The vision of a lion, for example, is roughly six times more sensitive to light than a human's. This gives lions a distinct advantage when hunting at night. A lion's claws are retractable, allowing for the excellent control when it needs to go in for a kill. Did we mention that those claws are large? When fully extended, a lion's claws can be up to 1 1 2 inches in length. Lions can also reach speeds of up to 50 miles per hour in short bursts and jump up to 36 feet in length. Taken together, it's easy to see why the lion is referred to as the "king of the jungle", which leads us to our next fact...  p 
 p Known colloquially as the "king of the jungle", lions do not actually live in jungles. Instead, their primary habitats consist of Africa’s grasslands and plains.  p 
 p A lion's roar can be heard up to 5 miles away. The roar is a warning to other animals and rival prides to stay clear of the lion's domain. But beyond the iconic roar, lions communicate with one another as many cats do: through mews and purrs. Lions also rub their heads on one another as an act of bonding and to spread the "family scent". This scent allows the lions of a specific pride to know who is a member of their family and who is not if a dispute arises between prides.  p 
 p Lions mate every two years and female lions give birth to a litter of 2-3 cubs after a four-month pregnancy. Females in the same pride tend to give birth around the same time, which allows multiple litters to be raised together. This has the added advantage of allowing different cubs to nurse with other lion mothers, making it easier for the pride to manage the cubs in those crucial early months. Where's dad during the raising of the cubs? Alas, male lions do not directly participate in the parenting, but they will protect the pride's cubs from danger.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  img alt="A curious lion cub" src=" sites default files lion-cub.jpg"  br  em A curious lion cub, or "lionet".  em   p 
 p Though they are usually referred to as "cubs", lion babies have two other names: "whelps" and "lionets".  p 
 p After tigers, lions are the largest wild cats on the planet. Male lions can grow up to 10 feet in length and weigh up to 550 pounds, while female lions can grow to a length of 9 feet and weigh up to 395 pounds.  p 
 p Only 34,000 wild lions remain in Africa, which is half of what it was only 30 years ago. Some scientists predict that wild lions could face extinction by the year 2050 if trends continue and humans don't increase their efforts to protect these amazing and powerful animals. The main threats to lions are loss of territory, lion human conflict, and trophy hunting. As a traveler, you can do your part by traveling to national parks and game reserves that put resources toward protecting Africa's lions. By booking with Lion World Travel, you can be sure that you are helping to support lion conservation in Africa. For more information,  a href=" news lion-world-travel-adopts-new-treadright-animal-welfare-policy" target="_blank" read about our TreadRight Animal Welfare Policy.  a   p 
 p  a href=" safari-finder" Safaris  a   a href=" safaris specials" Exclusive Vacation Packages  a   a href=" destinations map" Destinations  a   a href=" cruises" Cruises  a   a href=" unique-experiences" Safari Experiences  a   a href=" plan-my-safari" Request a Safari Quote  a   a href=" brochure-request" Request a Brochure  a   p 
 p  a href=" how-to-book" How to Book a Safari  a   a href=" faq" Know Before You Go  a   a href=" day-on-safari" A Day on Safari  a   a href=" documents-downloads" Documents &amp; Downloads  a   p 
 p  a href=" boma" The Boma  a   a href=" blog" Sundowners With Lucille  a   a href=" boma" #LionWorldTales Contest  a   a href=" lionworldtales" #LionWorldTales Rules  a   a href=" blog traveler-reviews" Traveler Reviews  a   p 
 p  a href=" about-us" About Us  a   a href=" contact-us" Contact Us  a   a href=" lionworldcares" Lion World Cares  a   a href=" loyalty" TTC Loyalty  a   a href=" about-us travel-corporation" The Travel Corporation  a   a href=" terms-conditions" Terms &amp; Conditions  a   a href=" privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a   p 
