 p  a href=" animals asian-elephant " Asian elephants  a  br 
Greater one-horned rhinos br 
 a href=" animals malayan-tapir " Malayan tapirs  a  br 
 a href=" animals clouded-leopard " Clouded leopards  a  br 
Fishing cats br 
Gibbons  p 
 p Kamala Café br 
Men’s, Women’s and Family restrooms  p 
 p Toyota Elephant Passage features two miles of interconnected trails on 10 acres of varied terrain and is one of the largest and most-complex elephant habitats in North America. Asian elephants, greater one-horned rhinos and Malayan tapirs can rotate among five unique, abundant habitats with a sixth yard exclusively for the tapirs. Mud wallows, scratching trees, shade structures and more than one million gallons of water for swimming and bathing have been developed to ensure active and healthy animals.  p 
 p Visitors are able to explore and discover the rich history of animals in Asian culture, their complicated relationship with humans and the efforts of Denver Zoo and colleagues to protect their future. Toyota Elephant Passage is separated into three distinct sections: The Chang Pa Wildlife Preserve, The Schoelzel Family Village and the Village Outpost, each reflecting a different area in tropical Asia – an animal preserve, an urban center, and a rural village.  p 
 p  strong McGrath Family Amphitheater  strong  br 
11:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m.  p 
 p  a href=" animals amur-tiger " Amur (Siberian) tigers  a   p 
 p  strong Tiger talk:   strong 3:00 pm  p 
 p The Edge, brings you closer than ever to the Zoo’s Amur tigers. It features multiple yards and connecting bridges that allow tigers to stride 12 feet over guests’ heads, and a viewing area with a perforated wall that brings visitors mere inches from these magnificent creatures! This allows for unique interactions as guests are able to hear, and even smell, the tigers through the mesh.  p 
 p Located on almost a full acre of the Zoo's campus, The Edge increased the tigers’ outdoor space by almost 50 percent. The yard mimics their natural habitat with a dozen 120-year-old pine trees to provide shade, as well as large pools to keep them cool and provide enrichment.  p 
 p  a href=" animals african-lion " African lions  a  br 
 a href=" animals african-wild-dog " African wild dogs  a  br 
 a href=" animals spotted-hyena " Spotted hyenas  a   p 
 p Step into Denver Zoo and find yourself in Africa! Predator Ridge is an award-winning exhibit where guests can meander through rock outcroppings and native brush to experience lions, hyenas and African wild dogs. The exhibit has set standards for both visitor and animal care expectations for zoos around the world. With rotational yards, different species may be seen in the exhibit at different times which allows animals to rotate through multiple habitats, stimulating their minds, expanding their experiences and providing important exercise opportunities.  p 
 p  strong Africa’s Greatest Predators:  strong  Pahali Ya Simba br 
Daily at 2:00 p.m.  p 
 p  a href=" animals western-lowland-gorilla " Gorillas  a  br 
 a href=" animals sumatran-orangutan " Orangutans  a  br 
 a href=" animals mandrill " Mandrill  a  br 
 a href=" animals ring-tailed-lemur " Ring-tailed lemurs  a   p 
 p Immerse yourself in the seven-acre habitat for Denver Zoo’s apes, monkeys, and lemurs. Tree-dwelling monkeys delight in the open-air wire mesh tents that soar four stories high and cover more than an acre of ground. Inside these tents, the monkeys play and climb on twisting vines, and drink from the cool streams.  p 
 p The gorillas and orangutans roam freely in their separate one-acre exhibits, climbing ropes and taking afternoon hammock naps in one of the most expansive great ape habitats in the world.  p 
 p Men’s, Women’s and Family restrooms  p 
 p  a href=" animals komodo-dragon " Komodo dragon  a  br 
 a href=" animals sea-stars " Sea star  a  br 
 a href=" animals green-anaconda " Green anaconda  a  br 
Lake Titicaca frogs  p 
 p Opened in 1993 after 11 years of planning, fundraising, and construction, Tropical Discovery immerses visitors in a world of balmy jungles and coral reefs. An impressive project, the exhibit marked the completion of the Denver Zoo’s 1959 master plan. Guests will be thrilled by the colorful, exotic creatures, including fish, amphibians, invertebrates, and reptiles that live in Tropical Discovery.  p 
 p Men’s, Women’s and Family restrooms  p 
 p  a href=" animals california-sea-lion " California sea lion  a  br 
 a href=" animals harbor-seal " Harbor seal  a  br 
 a href=" animals north-american-river-otter " North American river otter  a   p 
 p Northern Shores brings the wonders of aquatic life to Denver. Home to popular daily California sea lion demonstrations, this exhibit showcases the power of the polar bear, the slick swimming skills of the seal and sea lion and charismatic nature of the river otter. Underwater viewing at both the polar bear and sea lion exhibit fascinate children and adults alike.  p 
 p Northern Shores Café and Sweet Treats  p 
 p  strong Sea Lion Demonstration  strong  br 
Northern Shores Sea Lion Pool br 
10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.  p 
 p  a href=" animals african-black-footed-penguin " African penguins  a  br 
 a href=" animals american-flamingo " Flamingos  a  br 
Lorikeets br 
 a href=" animals bald-eagle " Bald eagles  a  br 
 a href=" animals linnes-two-toed-sloth " Linne’s two-toed sloth  a   p 
 p From playful toucans to flocking flamingos, see nearly 200 species of birds. Walk through Bird World, an indoor aviary where each room features a naturalistic habitat and aquatic ecosystem, most without barriers so birds can fly freely among zoo visitors. Guests can hand-feed colorful lorikeets at Lorikeet Adventure and learn more about Denver Zoo’s avian propagation program while walking through the Nurture Trail.  p 
 p Men’s and Women’s Restrooms-inside Bird World  p 
 p  a href=" animals river-hippopotamus " Hippopotamus  a  br 
 a href=" animals black-rhinoceros " Black rhino  a  br 
 a href=" animals cinereous-vulture " Cinereous vulture  a   p 
 p See hippos swim and wallow to their heart’s content while black rhinos romp in their outdoor yards or cozy up in their indoor quarters. Constructed in the 1950’s, the pachyderm building is currently home to hippos, rhinos, and cinereous Eurasian black vulture. This building was also once home to Asian elephants. After the completion of Toyota Elephant Passage, the elephant portion of the building was renovated to provide more space for the black rhino and hippos.  p 
 p Across from the real hippos, the bronze mother hippo with calf statue has become a favorite photo spot for generations of zoo guests.  p 
 p  a href=" animals grizzly-bear " Grizzly Bears  a   p 
 p A national historic landmark built in 1918, Bear Mountain was the first naturalistic habitat of its kind in North America, based on giant plaster casts of rock outcroppings from an area near Morrison, Colorado. This concept was revolutionary in zoo design – people could see the animals at eye level in a natural habitat without apparent bars or fences. It’s currently home to grizzly bears and coati.  p 
 p Guests will also find Monkey Island and Sheep Mountain in this historic section of Denver Zoo. This area is a favorite for many children, with the Ox Cart, Denver Zoo Railroad, presented by Union Pacific Railroad, Conservation Carousel and Woodland Gardens.  p 
 p Brown Bear Restaurant – open seasonally  p 
 p Tidal pool with shallow stream br 
Sand Digging Area br 
Climbing Web br 
Rock Structures  p 
 p Come visit Denver Zoo’s Explore the Shore play area between the polar bear and sea lion habitats, next to the Northern Shores Café. Themed around the Pacific Northwest, the play area features a tidal pool with a shallow stream perfect for splashing and cooling off on warm summer days. Kids can catch pinecone fish like a bear or build a dam like a beaver. The play area also features a sand digging area, a climbing web, and rock structures for exploring. This fun and interactive area provides a space in the zoo where kids can be adventurous and active, and cool off from the summer heat. Explore the Shore is staffed in the summer months with Play Facilitators to lead activities that encourage kids to interact with their environment through nature-based experiments and experiences. Stop by and see what’s splashing!  p 
 p The sand pit, climbing web, and rock structures are open year round weather permitting. The water play area is open Memorial Day through Labor Day. Swim diapers recommended for the water play area.  p 
 p Open seasonally from late spring to early fall, weather permitting.  p 
 p Activities vary throughout the day.  p 
 p Visit the ‘Be a Zookeeper Zone’ area to see the day’s schedule of activities.  p 
 p Be a Zookeeper Zone is an interactive area that provides children ages 2-10, and their adults, a chance to learn about the science of zoo keeping. Guests will use scientific methods and hands-on learning to discover how zookeepers use science to provide excellent care for Denver Zoo’s animals.  p 
 p Come visit to see which animal ambassador is visiting in Outdoor Recess, where children can relate their love of recess to how zookeepers give animals similarly enjoyable opportunities in this unique transitional habitat. Stop by the Creative Care Corner to design and build a habitat for box turtles and guinea pigs, and then observe them interact with their habitat as you investigate what these animals prefer. And, be sure not to miss the charismatic llamas ‘Jorge’ and ‘Fernando’. Assist in a feeding session or participate in a llama walk about the zoo! Other activities offered in ‘Be a Zookeeper Zone’ include live animal demonstrations, enrichment creation, animal diet investigations, animal behavior observations, and much more.  p 
 p Climb aboard the Denver Zoo Railroad, presented by Union Pacific Railroad, take a trip around the animal world on the Conservation Carousel or immerse yourself in a 4-dimensional experience! Check our attractions page to see what movies are playing and how you can buy tickets when on your visit.  p 
 p  strong Nectar Sales:  strong  10 a.m. – 3 p.m. br 
 strong Nectar Cup Price:  strong  $2  p 
 p Step into Lorikeet Adventure and you’ll be greeted by the cheerful chirps of Denver Zoo’s most vibrant residents. Lorikeet Adventure is home to a variety of lorikeets, small, brightly-colored parrots from Australia and the South Pacific. Stroll through the open aviary as lorikeets fly overhead and learn more about these acrobats of the tropics from zookeepers and volunteers. Looking to get even closer? Visitors can opt to pay and hand feed the birds from a cup of nectar as they perch right on your arm. This unforgettable experience is great for visitors of all ages.  p 
 p A one-of-a-kind experience.  p 
 p class="fotbot" style="text-align: center;" Web development by  a class="newmed" href="https:  newmediadenver.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener" NEWMEDIA  a   p 
