 p style="text-align:center; padding:5px" 
 a href="http:  www.biologicaldiversity.org" 
 img width="800" src="https:  www.biologicaldiversity.org news press_releases images cbd-press-header.gif" alt="Center for Biological Diversity" border="0" align="top" style="margin:auto;display:block;height:auto;width:100%;max-width:800px;"   a 
  p 
 p For Immediate Release, March 13, 2019  p 
 p Contact:  J.P. Rose, (408) 497-7675, jrose@biologicaldiversity.org   p 
 p align="center" class="headline" Ventura  County Adopts First-of-its-kind Measure Protecting Wildlife Connectivity                            p 
 p align="center" class="headline"  em Ordinance Would Help Curb  Roadkill, Safeguard Local Mountain Lions  em                             p 
 p VENTURA,  em Calif.  em — The Ventura County Board of Supervisors voted Tuesday night  to adopt a first-of-its-kind ordinance to safeguard wildlife connectivity. The  Center for Biological Diversity submitted  a href=" programs urban pdfs Comment-Letter-on-Connectivity-Ordinance-to-BoS-2019-03-11.pdf" comments  a  supporting the ordinance and testified at  the hearing.   p 
 p Supervisors passed a strong version of  the measure and set aside proposed amendments aimed at weakening it. The approved  ordinance heightens protections for areas designated as important wildlife  corridors and requires environmental review for developments that might degrade  those areas. Wildlife corridors help mountain lions, California red-legged  frogs and other animals maintain crucial genetic diversity and avoid being  killed by cars.   p 
 p “The ordinance is a major step forward  in protecting Ventura County wildlife from habitat fragmentation, overdevelopment  and car collisions,” said J.P. Rose, a staff attorney at the Center. “We hope  other communities follow Ventura County’s lead in safeguarding wildlife as  development pressure and climate change intensify. Ultimately we need state-led  action to protect existing corridors and create wildlife crossings to save  imperiled animals from becoming roadkill.”   p 
 p Mountain lions are struggling as roads  and development restrict their ability to roam over the large home ranges they  need to thrive and maintain genetic diversity.  p 
 p Government officials estimate that  a href="https:  www.publicnewsservice.org 2016-12-27 endangered-species-and-wildlife 100-calif-mountain-lions-a-year-killed-by-motor-vehicles a55466-1" target="_blank" more than 100 mountain lions are killed  a  every year on California roads, and a recent  a href="https:  roadecology.ucdavis.edu files content news CA_WVC_Hotspots_2018.pdf" UC Davis study  a  found that mountain lion deaths due to vehicle collisions have been increasing  since 2015. Mountain lions in the Santa Monica Mountains also suffer from the  a href="https:  www.nps.gov articles mountain-lions-face-loss-of-genetic-diversity.htm" target="_blank" lowest genetic diversity  a  of any population in the West.  p 
 p Mountain lions also help maintain  biodiversity and control deer populations, which in turn reduces dangerous collisions  between automobiles and deer. Adopting an ordinance that protects and enhances existing,  natural corridors would improve the big cats’ chances of survival and  facilitate greater biodiversity and healthy ecosystems.  p 
 p On Jan. 31, 2019, the planning  commission recommended approval of the ordinance with smaller, 100-foot  setbacks from streams and exclusion of the Tierra Rejada Valley from the wildlife-protection  area. But the Board of Supervisors decided to require stronger, 200-foot  setbacks recommended by county staff and include Tierra Rejada Valley in the protection  area.                            p 
 p id="about" align="center"  i The Center for Biological Diversity is a national, nonprofit  conservation organization with more than 1.4 million members and online  activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places.  i   p 
 p style="text-align:center; padding:5px"                        
 a href="http:  biologicaldiversity.org" target="_blank" style="text-decoration:none;"  img width="787" src="https:  www.biologicaldiversity.org news press_releases images cbd-press-footer.gif" alt="www.biologicaldiversity.org" border="0" style="display:block;max-width:787px;height:auto;width:100%;margin:auto"   a   p 
 p  a href="http:  www.biologicaldiversity.org news breaking " More press releases  a   p 
