 p  b Editors: Marc Cadotte, Jos Barlow, Nathalie Pettorelli, Phil Stephens and Martin Nuñez  b   p 
 p  i style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; outline: 0px; font-size: 13px; vertical-align: baseline; background-image: initial; background-position: 0px 0px; background-size: initial; background-repeat: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-origin: initial; background-clip: initial; color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif;" Journal of Applied Ecology  i  span style="color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; font-size: 13px;"  publishes novel, high-impact papers on the interface between ecological science and the management of biological resources.  span   p 
 p 'Wolf and colleagues developed a highly useful evaluation instrument for syndromic surveillance in a system with seasonal differences in epidemiology that make disease detection challenging. Although certainly only a first step in applying the model, their results can help park managers to better understand the dynamics of diseases in seasonally varying social networks and to target and focus surveillance efforts for more effective disease detection' - Associate Editor, Silke Bauer on the importance of our latest Editor's Choice article,  a href="https:  besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com doi 10.1111 1365-2664.13284" Optimizing syndromic health surveillance in free ranging great apes: The case of Gombe National Park  a .   p 
 p Apple producers in Japan have, in recent times, found themselves battling increasing levels of tree damage caused by voles. Following the publication of the article  a href="https:  besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com doi abs 10.1111 1365-2664.13295" target="_blank" Effectiveness of vole control by owls in apple orchards  a , Chie Murano highlights the vital role predators such as Ural owls play in protecting farmers' produce from pest species.  a href="https:  appliedecologistsblog.com 2018 12 11 pest-vole-control-by-owls " target="_blank"   a   p 
 p Mateo‐Tomás et al. use the example of intergrating scavenger conservation into sanitary European regulations to demonstrate how interregional coordination is necessary to implement effective environmental policy intergration relating to the conservation of transboundary species. Their Policy Direction is free to read now.   p 
 p While deer may impact tree regeneration, they can also help prevent the spread of severe wildfires. Given increased likelihood of extreme climatic events, such as droughts, Miguel Bugalho explains how we need to consider both the positive and negative effects of wild ungulate grazing.   p 
 p Major knowledge gaps remain, but current use of neonicotinoids is likely to be impacting on a broad range of non‐target taxa including pollinators and soil and aquatic invertebrates and hence threatens a range of ecosystem services.  p 
 p Major knowledge gaps remain, but current use of neonicotinoids is likely to be impacting on a broad range of non‐target taxa including pollinators and soil and aquatic invertebrates and hence threatens a range of ecosystem services.  p 
 p If you are a BES member click here for instructions on how to access all BES journal content  p 
 p  small Note: you will be redirected to BES for access.  small   p 
 p style="text-align: right;"  span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; outline: 0px; font-size: 13px; vertical-align: baseline; background: 0px 0px transparent; color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; text-align: right;" British Ecological Society, Charles Darwin House, 12 Roger St, London, WC1N 2JU, UK  span  span style="color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; font-size: 13px; text-align: right; background-color: transparent;"  |   span  span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; outline: 0px; font-size: 13px; vertical-align: baseline; background: 0px 0px transparent; color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; text-align: right;" T: +44 20 7685 2500  br E: hello@britishecologicalsociety.org  span  span style="color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; font-size: 13px; text-align: right; background-color: transparent;"  |   span  span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; outline: 0px; font-size: 13px; vertical-align: baseline; background: 0px 0px transparent; color: #424242; font-family: 'Open Sans', Arial, Helvetica, 'Lucida Sans Unicode', sans-serif; text-align: right;" Charity Registration Number: 281213  span   p 
 p Your password has been changed  p 
 p class="sub" Enter your email address below.   p 
 p Please check your email for instructions on resetting your password.
                    If you do not receive an email within 10 minutes, your email address may not be registered,
                    and you may need to create a new Wiley Online Library account.  p 
 p Can't sign in? Forgot your username?  p 
 p class="sub" Enter your email address below and we will send you your username  p 
 p If the address matches an existing account you will receive an email with instructions to retrieve your username  p 
