 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Everybody loves Sparky.   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The joyful antics of Como Zoo’s trained sea lion have delighted generations of Minnesotans. Day after day for sixty years, packed crowds cheer on the mascot of the state’s most popular cultural attraction. Sparky is as Minnesotan as a day at the lake or a buttered cob of corn.   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" But Sparky has a great need.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s2" Sparky’s current home  span  span class="s1" , Seal Island, is a 1930s, retro-fitted monkey exhibit. The concrete facilities do not replicate the seals’ and sea lions’ habitat or provide context for the animals’ natural environment. The needs of seals and sea lions were not taken into consideration in the current exhibit, so Sparky and the other sea lions and seals move off of Seal Island to the aquatics building because the exhibit cannot hold water in the winter months. This leaves Seal Island empty and barren for half of the year.   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The public amenities for the Sparky Show are also quite Spartan.  The bathrooms were built in the 1930’s and can’t handle capacity crowds. There’s no shade for the animals and visitors on sweltering hot summer days. Long concession lines and limited seating make getting lunch difficult.  Sparky needs a new home.    span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Private donations will make possible a state-of-the-art Seals and Sea Lions Habitat and improve the visitor experience. With just $2.1 million left to go we are asking the public to help bring in the remaining dollars. Ground breaking began this past February and the goal is to have all funds raised by January 2019. span class="Apple-converted-space"     span So give today. Every Gift Matters!   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The facilities’ re-design will improve the visitors’ experience and the animals’ training sessions and health care.  The new Como Harbor seals and sea lions habitat will continue Como’s 21st century vision of re-imagining the zoo that began in 2010 with Polar Bear Odyssey and Gorilla Forest.  span   p 
 p  strong A New Visitor Experience  strong   p 
 p Highlights include:  p 
 p  strong Enhanced Animal Well Being  strong   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" The role of zoos has evolved.  For instance, all of Como’s seals and sea lions are rehabilitated animals – wild animals that were injured, rescued, and rehabilitated but had a physical limitation that prevented them from being returned to the wild.  span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" New designs include:  span   p 
 p  strong Jackie Sticha  strong  br 
President br 
e-mail:  a href="mailto:jackie.sticha@comofriends.org" jackie.sticha@comofriends.org  a  br 
phone: 651-487-8225  p 
 p  strong Laurel Lundberg  strong  br 
Director of Individual Giving br 
e-mail:  a href="mailto:laurel.lundberg@comofriends.org" laurel.lundberg@comofriends.org  a  br 
phone: 651-487-8296  p 
 p View some unique Como gift ideas!  p 
 p See all the ways you can help Como thrive!.  p 
 p Be a friend to Como’s animals.  p 
 p Help the Marjorie McNeely Conservatory grow.  p 
 p © 2019 Como Friends.    p 
