 p PLAN YOUR VISIT TODAY!  p 
 p LEARN ABOUT ALL OF OUR ANIMALS!  p 
 p ENROLL IN A ZOO ADVENTURE !  p 
 p CONSERVATION EFFORTS AROUND THE GLOBE  p 
 p SUPPORT THE ZOO!  p 
 p Female lions are the primary hunters of the pride. They work together to gather food for their young.  p 
 p Enzi, like his brother and sister, continue to grow very quickly. He is more laid back but very curious. He enjoys chasing and stalking kids at the glass on exhibit.  p 
 p Enzi, meaning powerful, is courageous and likes climbing on rocks and limbs outdoors.  p 
 p Mashaka is the mischievious and enjoys wrestling his brother.  p 
 p Mashaka loves exploring the exhibit in the afternoons. His name means "troublemaker."  p 
 p Sukari is oftentimes seen very close to mom Zuri. She is growing fast and looks a lot like Zuri, but she is still slightly smaller than mom and has a lighter coat.  p 
 p Sukari, like her brothers, love ice treats! She enjoys climbing on the rocks and limbs in the exhibit with her brothers. Her name means "sweet".  p 
 p She can be found in the exhibit keeping an eye on her three offspring. She weighs around 325 pounds.  p 
 p Zuri gave birth to her first litter of cubs in September 2015.   p 
 p class="box-info-desc" style="color:#7c4c0f" 
		   Look no further. Connect with our amazing animals and learn about the wild places they come from.		     p 
 p Pounce on the chance to learn about our African lions during one of our newest chats! You may hear our four vocal lions from their exhibit in the Plains area. With the addition of three curious cubs in Sept. 2015 comes a mixture of fun personalities! During a keeper’s training demonstration, keep an eye out for the playful siblings as they often like to join in on each other’s demonstration. While you experience the pride’s dynamics, find out more about these incredible cats and the challenges they face in Central Africa.  p 
 p The Animal Amigo program helps care for all of the animals at the Zoo by funding food, medical treatment, equipment, enrichment toys, and habitat improvement for the animals in our care. For a donation of $100 or more, you can sponsor a lion at the Indianapolis Zoo. You will receive a plush, collector card, certificate and recognition on the Animal Amigo donor board!  p 
 p class="address" 1200 West Washington St. Indianapolis, IN 46222  p 
 p class="mobile-no" 317-630-2001  p 
 p class="today-date-time" 9AM-4PM MON-WED | 9AM-5PM THURS-SUN  p 
 p class="copyright-text"  a href=" privacy-policy " Privacy Statement  a  © Indianapolis Zoo. All Rights Reserved. 2018.   p 
