 p class="site-search_intro__tablet-down" Type and then tap 'go' to search…  p 
 p class="site-search_intro__desktop" Type and then press 'enter' to search…  p 
 p class="text-panel_intro" 
	Making herbal tea, scattering glitter on meat and watching one of the world’s most beautiful big cats play with a giant ball is just a normal day for carnivore assistant team manager, Lucy. She spent some time talking about our trio of lions...
  p 
 p  strong What’s so special about the Asiatic lion?  strong   p 
 p  a href=" explore-the-zoo animals mammals big-cats asiatic-lion" Asiatic lions  a  are truly one of the most impressive big cats. I really love working with them! They are always outgoing and confident which means they are easy to work with. We’ve got three lions here: Iblis, the male lion, and two sisters Kumari and Kiburi.   p 
 p Iblis has a really handsome face with symmetrical features and his mane is a perfect mix of blonde and dark. He has a very relaxed temperament. Kumari is the more confident of our two lionesses, she’s very intelligent and will stick up for herself if Iblis is putting his weight around, whereas Kiburi is much more timid.  p 
 p  strong Tell us about their habitat?  strong   p 
 p The lions have been together for around six years. They live near The Oakfield and visitors have the opportunity to walk all the way around their habitat. Whilst we want our visitors to get a brilliant view of the animals, it’s important that the lions have the option of privacy and so there are lots of screening in certain areas so the lions have spots where they can’t see the visitors. In the middle of their habitat is a large mound of earth and our lions love sitting on top of it as they can get a good view of everything that’s going on around the zoo.   p 
 p I like the fact that our lions are really relaxed in their habitat; it shows us they are happy and a happy animal makes a happy keeper! In the wild lions would have to do a lot of exercise when they hunt for food but once they have caught their food they spend the rest of the day (up to 20 hours) asleep. Our lions don’t have to hunt of course but we do have lots of ways to encourage them to work hard for their food. And after a big feed, they do a lot of what lions do - lying around, sleeping and generally relaxing which shows they are happy together.   p 
 p  strong What enrichment do you provide for the lions?  strong   p 
 p I love providing the lions with enrichment; they particularly love sensory enrichment. This means we have to collect lots of different smells from all around the zoo. We get scents from the bedding or dung of other animals, our horticultural team provide us with fresh cut herbs or different plants and we’ve also been known to use herbal tea.   p 
 p We place these around their habitat on stuff that is already in situ like the trees or rocks.  Sometimes we make hessian sacks filled with straw and add the scent to these or stuff them inside a wooden ball!   p 
 p  strong Iblis is an important part of the European endangered species breeding programme. How are he and Kumari getting on?  strong   p 
 p Iblis and Kumari get along well! We know that they are mating but as yet Kumari has not fallen pregnant. A fertility expert has seen both Iblis and Kumari and have confirmed that they are both fertile and ready to breed. We’ve also been  a href="https:  www.actforwildlife.org.uk conservation-news life-chester-zoo-science-lab " working with our in-house science team  a  collecting faecal samples from Kumari. This requires a keeper to place a small amount of glitter in Kumari’s meat every day, which means that when we clean their habitat we can easily find Kumari’s poo and take a sample.   p 
 p This sample is then taken to our science team for an analysis and they plot her hormone levels during her cycle. This tells us that she is cycling normally and can get pregnant. We have used a few drugs to help their fertility but this has not yet worked, so we are currently looking at other options to hopefully help them to one day produce a cub.  p 
 p  strong Why is breeding Asiatic lions so important?   strong   p 
 p It’s really important we provide a safety net population for this beautiful species because, at this moment in time, all wild Asiatic lions are living in just one forest in India, the Gir Forest. A few years ago their numbers had declined so much that there were less than 100 individual lions remaining. Now the majority of them are living within a protected reserve and numbers have increased slightly to around 400 but this is still awfully low.    p 
 p Having just one wild population is very risky. If disease hits or a natural disaster occurs then the whole wild population could become extinct. It’s therefore imperative that zoos maintain a genetically healthy population for this species and I hope one day we can play a role in this.  p 
 p Right now  strong conservation is critical  strong . Species are under threat and so is the rich biodiversity of our planet. We won't stand back and we won't give up.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Act for Wildlife  p 
 p Let’s get things straight… you’re never too old to have FUN! =D Bring your family and friends to PLAY! at Chester Zoo for a day full of giggles, laughter, fun and exploring!  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Lets PLAY!  p 
 p class="link link__arrow link__arrow-large" Check our prices here  p 
 p You'll always find our best prices online &amp; there are no hidden fees.  p 
 p 
					We're open from 10am till 4.30pm, with last entry 30 minutes before closing.
				  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" 
					Full opening times
				  p 
 p  strong   strong Right now  strong conservation is critical   strong and species are under threat. We won't stand back and we won't give up.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Act now  p 
 p We've got everything you need for inspirational learning, from curriculum-linked workshops to self-guided visits.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Plan your school trip  p 
 p style="min-height: 88px;" Explore like never before and step foot into a spiritual paradise where extraordinary discoveries are made, every day.  p 
 p class="link link__arrow" Find out more  p 
 p 
							Chester Zoo, Upton-by-Chester, Chester, . Sat Nav
							. Registered Charity No.
							306077
						  p 
