 p style="text-align: center; padding:10px; margin-top:0; width: 100%;background: red; color: #FFF;font-size: 14px;font-weight: bold;"  a style="color: #FFF;text-decoration: underline;" href=" petition " Sign the petition: Stop the Harvesting of Crocodile Eggs  a   p 
 p style="margin-left:10px;"  a href="https:  shop.australiazoo.com.au bindi books 1428-bindi-wildlife-adventures-#8--surfing-with-the-turtles" style="color:#FFF;" Bindi Wildlife Adventures #8 - Surfing With The Turtles  a   p 
 p style="margin:20px 0 20px 110px;"  a href="https:  shop.australiazoo.com.au bindi books 1428-bindi-wildlife-adventures-#8--surfing-with-the-turtles" class="shopbutton-green" Shop Now »  a   p 
 p ( i Cyclura cornuta  i )  p 
 p The Rhinoceros Iguana gets its name from its outgrowths, like horns, on the end of it's nose. These large, heavy bodied lizards are dusky- grey or olive green with dark cross bands that are often barely visible. They have three horny bumps on the snout, which are more pronounced in males. The average adult is 2 feet in length (snout to vent).   p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong   p 
 p The Rhinoceros Iguana is native to the island of Hispaniola (Haiti and The Dominican Republic) and several surrounding West Indian Islands. These iguanas live in areas of open scrub, among rocks and cactus thickets. They can also be found in dry forests to subtropical moist forests. This species is primarily found near coastlines, however, human expansion has forced many populations to retreat further inland. These iguanas are active during the day, spending the nights in rock crevices and dug out burrows.   p 
 p  strong Diet  strong   p 
 p Mature iguanas are primarily herbivores, eating fruit, leaves and flowers. They will occasionally supplement their diets with insects and larger prey items.   p 
 p  strong Breeding  strong   p 
 p The Rhinoceros Iguana becomes sexually mature between the ages of 5-9. The breeding season of the Rhinoceros Iguana is in April and the eggs are laid about 40 days after mating. The female will dig a nest cavity in the sand and she will lay as many as 16 eggs at one time. Rhinoceros Iguanas are independent from birth. Females only breed once per year.   p 
 p   a href="#Jacko" Jacko  a   a href="#Pinko" Pinko  a   p 
 p »  a href=" about-us zoo-gossip 785-rhino-iguanas-get-a-new-home" Rhino Iguanas Get a New Home  a  br   p 
 p »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards perentie " Perentie  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards komodo-dragon " Komodo Dragon  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards blue-tongue-lizard " Blue-tongue Lizard  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards eastern-water-dragon " Eastern Water Dragon  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards fijian-crested-iguana " Fijian Crested Iguana  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards shingleback-lizard " Shingleback Lizard  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards green-iguana " Green Iguana  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards rhino-iguana " Rhino Iguana  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards gila-monster " Gila Monster  a  br »  a href=" our-animals reptiles lizards veiled-chameleon " Veiled Chameleon  a  br   p 
 p Sex: Male  p 
 p  span I'd like to introduce you to Jacko, one of our beautiful Rhinoceros Iguanas. These guys belong to a group of large ground-dwelling iguanas found on a number of different islands throughout the West Indies. Jacko will live until about the age of forty years and weigh up to 10 kg (he's still got plenty of growing to do!). Jacko lives with two female Rhinoceros Iguanas, and I'm telling you, he is a real character. He definitely makes sure we know who’s the boss when we enter his home.  Through his displays of head bobbing he reminds us that the two girls he lives with are taken. What a funny bloke - Perhaps he feels as though there's a bit of competition.  span   p 
 p Sex: Female  p 
 p Pinko was born here at Australia Zoo and spent the first four and a half years of her life in our lizard room, (a temperature-controlled room created especially for young lizards to grow up in). Since then she has moved out into a much larger area with another two Rhinoceros Iguanas; Pinko is by far the most shy. If you do make an effort to spend a bit of time with her this lovely little lizard’s affectionate nature really comes through.  p 
 p By sponsoring one of our animals or conservation projects at Australia Zoo, not only do you have the satisfaction of knowing you are making a difference - you will also receive gifts of appreciation according to the level at which you sponsor! Wooo-hoo!  p 
 p  strong $50 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $100 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $250 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $500 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $10000 Donation  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="#" onclick="$.closeOverlay();return false;" close  a   p 
 p  1638 Steve Irwin Way  br Beerwah, Qld, 4519  br + 61 (7) 5436 2000  br  a href="https:  www.australiazoo.com.au" www.australiazoo.com.au  a   p 
 p style="font-size: 12px;" Open Daily 9.00am - 5.00pm br  Closed Christmas Day br  Bedtime for some of our animals is 4:30pm.   p 
