 p Basket updated  p 
 p 
Subtotal:  span class="js-basket-modal-subtotal" $0.00  span 
  p 
 p Eyes in the sky   p 
 p Boots on the ground  p 
 p Sniffing out wildlife crime  p 
 p Education and engagement  p 
 p Camps for conservation  p 
 p Rescue, rehabilitation, reintegration  p 
 p Safeguarding wilderness areas  p 
 p Helping injured wildlife  p 
 p Providing water relief   p 
 p Our yearly review  p 
 p Aerial, Vet &amp; De-Snaring reports  p 
 p Daily updates from the Orphans' Project  p 
 p All our news in one place  p 
 p Orphaned animal rescues  p 
 p Articles on wildlife &amp; nature  p 
 p Adopt an orphan  p 
 p Help fund our projects  p 
 p Ways to raise funds for wildlife  p 
 p Join us at a Sheldrick Wildlife Trust event  p 
 p Shop with our Partners  p 
 p Buy Sheldrick Wildlife Trust merchandise  p 
 p Campaign for wildlife  p 
 p In kind gifts that save lives  p 
 p How companies can work with us  p 
 p Buy original watercolours by Angela Sheldrick  p 
 p Our origins &amp; mission  p 
 p Ecosystems we protect  p 
 p Threats facing wildlife  p 
 p Visual library of our projects  p 
 p Conservation &amp; corporate friends  p 
 p Kenya, UK &amp; USA  p 
 p Wild animals we help conserve  p 
 p Publications featuring our work  p 
 p Read more about how your donations help us continue our work and how to donate in honour of friends and family.  p 
 p Species we protect  p 
 p Today, rhino horn poaching is the main threat facing rhinos as demand has escalated in Asian countries, especially in Vietnam. Despite having no proven medicinal value and made of keratin, rhino horn has long been used in traditional medicines but in recent years, it has been incorrectly touted as a cure for ailments ranging from hangovers to treatment for cancer as well as status symbol.  p 
 p 
 strong Name:   strong  Black Rhino (Diceros bicornis)
  p 
 p 
 strong Life span:  strong  40 - 50 years
  p 
 p 
 strong Population:  strong  Est. 5,000
  p 
 p 
 strong Conservation Status:  strong  Critically endangered.
  p 
 p 
 strong Countries where Black Rhino live:   strong  Kenya, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Botswana, Malawi
  p 
 p A black rhino’s skin can be up to  b 5cm thick  b .  p 
 p Black rhinos are  strong smaller and lighter  strong  than their white rhino counterparts  p 
 p Black rhinos are  strong browsers that use their hooked lip  strong  to pluck at bushes and branches for food.  p 
 p Female black rhinos often have  strong longer and thinner horns  strong  while males tend to have thicker horns.  p 
 p 
 strong 1 rhino killed  strong 
every nine hours
  p 
 p 
 strong 24,706 - 26,570  strong 
Rhinos left in Africa
  p 
 p Learn more about the threats facing wild animals including black rhinos  p 
 p Black rhinos have a reputation for being solitary animals and can be very territorial. Recent research has indicated they are more social than previously thought, however, particularly around water holes at night.  p 
 p  strong Appearance:  strong   p 
 p Whilst they may be black and white in name, African rhinos are actually grey. Rhinos can be easily distinguished by the shape of their lips: A black rhino has a hooked lip whilst a white rhino will have a square lip. Black rhinos also have less of a pronounced hump on the back of their necks.  p 
 p  strong Horns:  strong   p 
 p Horns are used by rhinos as weapons during confrontations and for protection. They may also be used during encounters with other rhinos to demonstrate dominance or make a threat display. Whilst rhino calves are both without horns, a stub will appear from the age of one-two months and will continue to grow into a distinctive horn shape throughout a rhino’s lifetime.  p 
 p The gestation period for a rhino is 15-17 months and at birth, calves can weigh around 30-45kg. Calves will suckle for up to one year and will remain with their mothers for 2-4 years or until a female is ready to calve again.  p 
 p Rhinos are vital to keeping ecosystems in balance which means by protecting Africa’s rhinos, we protect other species too. As mega-herbivores, white rhinos have been described as ‘selective lawnmowers’ and help maintain grasslands, selectively grazing on certain grass species promoting biodiversity. Black rhinos also eat many woody plants which results in more grasses growing for the benefit of other animals.  p 
 p More than 16 black rhinos rescued with the aim of a wild release  p 
 p Ground teams, accompanied by a canine unit, protect wildlife from illegal activities.  p 
 p Four teams and one Sky Vet Unit treat tens of rhino cases each year.  p 
 p Sustainably managing unique and endangered wild habitats   p 
 p Education program that teaches Kenyan students about conservation  p 
 p Aircraft and helicopters monitor wildlife and identify illegal activity  p 
 p and Wales number 1103836, and is supported by The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust USA, Inc. a 501(c)3 in the United States (EIN 30-0224549)
 br  br 
Copyright © 2019, The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust. All Rights Reserved.
  p 
