 p WE NEED TO FIGHT THIS TOGETHER   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  strong 1. Rhinos are critically endangered:  strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" At the turn of the 19th century, there were approximately 1 000 000 rhinos. In 1970, there were around 70 000. Today, there are only around 28 000 rhinos surviving in the wild. Three of the five species of rhino are 'critically endangered' as defined by the IUCN (World Conservation Union).  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" The southern white rhino is classified by the IUCN in the lesser category of being 'near threatened'; the greater one-horned rhino is classified as 'vulnerable - this is considered to be facing a high risk of extinction in the wild.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" In 2016, some of us are lucky enough to be able to travel to Africa and Asia to see them in the wild. In 2026, when our children have grown up, will they still be able to see wild rhinos?  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" Rhinos have been an important part of a wide range of ecosystems for millions of years. We cannot let them join the dodo into extinction.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" When protecting and managing a rhino population, rangers and scientists take in account all the other species interacting with rhinos and those sharing the same habitat. When rhinos are protected, many other species are too; not only mammals but also birds, reptiles, fish and insects as well as plants.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" By focusing on a well-known animal such as a rhino (or, to use the jargon, a charismatic mega-herbivore), we can raise more money and consequently support more conservation programmes benefiting animal and plant species sharing their habitat.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" Rhinos are the second-biggest living land mammals after the elephants. Together with lions, giraffe, chimpanzees and polar bears, the rhino is one of the most popular species with zoo visitors. In the wild, rhinos attract tourists who bring money to national parks and local communities. They are one of the 'Big Five', alongside the lion, leopard, elephant and buffalo.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" Protecting and managing a rhino population is a real challenge that costs energy and money. Rhino range countries need our financial support and benefit from shared expertise and exchange of ideas.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" We know that conservation efforts save species. The southern white rhino would not exist today if it were not for the work of a few determined people. They brought together the remaining surviving rhinos for a managed breeding and re-introduction programme. Today, there are around 20 405 (as at 31 Dec. 2012) southern white rhinos.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" With more money, we can support more programmes, and not just save rhino populations, but increase numbers and develop populations. The northern white rhino subspecies may just have become extinct, but it is not too late to save the rest.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" Also, how many people know that rhinos also live in Asia? Or that two species have just one horn? Or that the horn is not used as an aphrodisiac? We have even heard some people say that they are carnivores!  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="font-size: 12pt;" If people do not know about these amazing animals and the problems they are facing, how can we expect them to want to do something to help save rhinos?  span   p 
