 p class="byline" Chase Karacostas, San Antonio Express-News  p 
 p Rendering of upcoming renovations to the rhino habitat at the San Antonio Zoo.  p 
 p Rendering of upcoming renovations to the rhino habitat at the San Antonio Zoo.  p 
 p class="open" Caption  p 
 p class="close" Close  p 
 p Rendering of upcoming renovations to the rhino habitat at the San Antonio Zoo.  p 
 p Rendering of upcoming renovations to the rhino habitat at the San Antonio Zoo.  p 
 p The San Antonio Zoo is expanding its rhino exhibit, and outside experts said it will be a major improvement in quality of life for the endangered species.  p 
 p The new habitat will not only give the rhinos more space, it will also connect to the giraffe and zebra habitat, known as "The Savanna", leading to more of the interspecies interaction that is commonly found in nature. It will open early next year.  p 
 p "It's terrific," said Susie Ellis, executive director of the International Rhino Foundation. "It will be a very rich environment for those animals with lots of stimulation ... It's much like the wild."  p 
 p  strong RELATED:  a href=" news local article S-A-Zoo-asks-Toys-R-Us-to-donate-Geoffrey-the-13038032.php?ipid=Artem" target="_blank" S.A. Zoo asks Toys R Us to donate "Geoffrey the Giraffe" trademark to support giraffe conservation  a   strong   p 
 p Ellis said there are not many zoos that have exhibits focusing on creating a more natural environment for the animals. But it is a trend many zoos are moving toward, she said.  p 
 p New features being added to the habitat include a waterfall, a mud wallow and more trees and landscaping. Crown cranes, waterbucks, sitatungas and marabou storks will join the rhinos too.  p 
 p Zoo CEO Tim Morrow told  a href="https:  www.mysanantonio.com" target="_blank" mySA.com  a  that he visited other zoos in recent years and has used ideas seen elsewhere as the zoo redevelops its habitats to make them feel more like home for the animals.  p 
 p "Zoos are really refocused on creating naturalistic habitats for the animals. Our visitors expect to see that when they come," Morrow said. "Zoos used to be judged by the public by how many animals they had and how many different kinds of animals they had. Where now zoos are judged by who has the best habitat."  p 
 p Beyond expanding the size of the rhino habitat, the zoo is also adding a nursery area and plans to receive two female and one male Southern White Rhino in 2019 when the exhibit reopens to begin a breeding program. Previously, the zoo was the first place in America to successfully a breed a white rhino in 1972.  p 
 p The changes to the rhino habitat also come in between rhino moves at the zoo. Morrow said one of their rhinos, Kutu, was recently moved out, and they needed to move up their schedule for revamping the habitat before the new three arrive. Kutu was born in San Diego and brought here in 2002.  p 
 p The "rhino-vation" is the latest in a wave of upgrades the zoo has seen in recent years. Cook said the zoo has seen an increase in attendance as the community has "fallen in love" with it again. Donations from park visitors as well as H-E-B and Valero have fueled funding for the zoo's improvements, he said.  p 
 p Also currently planned for renovations is the jaguar habitat, which will soon feature a catwalk that guests can walk under. Construction has yet to begin, but Cook said the jaguar habitat renovations should be done by late 2019 or early 2020.  p 
 p  em Chase Karacostas is a staff writer for  em   strong  a href="https:  www.mysanantonio.com " target="_blank" mySA.com.  a   strong  |  em Chase.Karacostas@express-news.net  em  |  em Twitter:  em   strong  a href="https:  twitter.com chasekaracostas" target="_blank" @ChaseKaracostas  a   strong   p 
