 p Recently, the Sumatran Rhino was sadly declared extinct from the wilds of Malaysia. This wonderful animal that once inhabited rainforests from India right through the Asian Pacific is now limited to a critically endangered population in the jungles of Indonesia.  p 
 p Increasingly our own impact on the life and climate of our planet is becoming more evident. It’s for these very reasons that GE is committed to its  a href="https:  www.ge-distributedpower.com images slideshow-extra-width 877 _thumb4 Waukesha048_1920x880.jpg" onclick="__gaTracker('send', 'event', 'outbound-article', 'https:  www.ge-distributedpower.com images slideshow-extra-width 877 _thumb4 Waukesha048_1920x880.jpg', 'Ecomaginaton');" Ecomaginaton  a  initiative. Our goal is not simply to reduce our wider environmental impact but to increase our resource efficiency on a global scale. Since 2005 GE as a company has quadrupled in size, yet managed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 31% and freshwater use by 42%. We all need to work together to reduce humanities impact on this beautiful planet we call home. If we don’t act now we’re sure to push even more of nature’s wonders towards extinction.  p 
 p  b The Sumatran Elephant: br 
  b   p 
 p    p 
 p Like the Sumatran Rhino, the Sumatran Elephant is deemed to be a critically endangered species, with only around 2,500 individuals still living in the wild. Poaching, deforestation and habitat loss have all contributed towards this endangered status. It is estimated 70% of their habitat has been destroyed in just one generation of these stunning animals.  p 
 p  b GE – Farming for the Future:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p As the world population increases in coming years so too will our demand for food. It is these very demands which drive habitat loss and push animals to the brink of extinction, as the hunger to feed our own species encroach more and more on the needs of animals in the wild.  p 
 p With GE’s advanced LED lighting solution we want to help change that. Indoor farms provide a resource and space efficient way to farm for the future, using ultra-efficient LED lighting to stimulate growth in plants without a need to clear huge areas of forest. This state of the art agriculture helps produce over 10,000 heads of lettuce a day using  a href="https:  www.ge.com reports post 105532612260 the-future-of-agriculture-indoor-farms-powered-by" GE’s LED lighting  a  at one of the world’s largest indoor farms in Miyagi prefecture, Japan.  p 
 p  b Orangutan:  b   p 
 p The ‘man of the forest’ is one of the world’s most beautiful and iconic creatures and South East Asia’s only great ape. Yet this great creature is under threat. With the pressures of deforestation, habitat loss and an encroaching human population the numbers of orang-utan in the wild has dropped from an estimated 230,000 a century ago to just 60,000 today.  p 
 p Among the many threats to their existence, climate change offers a looming challenge. With global warming increasing the duration and frequency of droughts, devastating bushfires are occurring more frequently in the heavily logged forests, further increasing habitat loss for these wonderful creatures.  p 
 p  b A Cleaner ASEAN in the Air:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p General Electric is committed to a sustainable future. If we are to provide a better world for tomorrow, we need to ensure a cleaner world of today. Our Ecomagination initiative has already seen us reduce our carbon footprint globally, with greenhouse gas emissions down 31% since 2004. And we’re working on smart solutions right here in the  a href="http:  www.gesustainability.com where-we-work asean " onclick="__gaTracker('send', 'event', 'outbound-article', 'http:  www.gesustainability.com where-we-work asean ', 'ASEAN region');" ASEAN region  a .  p 
 p Among these solutions is our dedication to Greener Skies. GE has been powering the air for years with our state of the art jet engines. Now we’ve created our Centre of Excellence for Greener Skies right here in Malaysia. Together GE Aviation and the Air Asia group are committed to reducing fuel consumption and lowering emissions.  p 
 p  b Philippine Eagle:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p The natural kings of the skies are equally under threat from the demands of our modern world. The Philippine Eagle has a wing span that extends up to seven feet as it soars through the skies over the Philippines. Yet like so many other birds in the region it is under threat from deforestation and loss of habitat and is now on the brink of extinction in the wild.  p 
 p  b Rainforestation:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p The GE Foundation is a philanthropic organisation and part of the greater General Electric family. It is dedicated to helping build a world that works better. An important part of that commitment is to the environment and animals we share our world with. That’s why GE awarded a $25,000 grant to the nature conservation group, Haribon Foundation, to restore one million hectares of Philippine rainforest using native species by the year 2020.  p 
 p  b Bali Starling:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p Known locally as the Jalak Bali, the Bali Starling is a critically endangered bird species with less than 200 individuals thought to be left in the wild. The bird not only has a tiny population but also suffers from poaching for the caged bird trade and an extremely small inhabited range, limited natively to the north west coast of Bali. As global warming threatens a rise in global sea levels the resultant loss of coastal land could threaten this bird and many other species around the globe.  p 
 p  b Smarter Energy:  b   p 
 p    p 
 p With rising global energy demand we need to act now to ensure this need doesn’t result in a rise of global sea levels. This would not only threaten our own places of habitation but the habitats of many of the world’s most vulnerable species.  p 
 p We need to be smarter with our energy. GE’s Jenbacher and Waukesha engines offer part of that solution. By operating on a range of fuels from clean natural gas to biowaste we can power the future using smarter, more efficient technology today. In Cavite Pig Farm in the Philippines they’re even used to generate power from animal waste produced by the 100,000 pigs on the farm. This harnesses potential pollutants and instead uses them to produce energy, reducing the farm’s environmental footprint and need to draw on less clean sources of energy.  p 
 p Subscribe to our GE Brief  p 
