 p style="text-align: center;"  strong #savingonehornatatime  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center; margin-top: -10px; font-size: 17px !important; line-height: 24px !important;" We are in a race to save the rhinoceros from extinction.  Why the rhinoceros?  p 
 p style="text-align: center; margin-top: -10px; font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;" PARCA has been working to help protect the rhinoceros since 2015.  First and foremost our work raises much-needed funds to enable groups in Africa to protect and care for rhinos. We advocate for and educate the public about rhino conservation and the critical nature of this issue.  We are a U.S. public charity under IRS Section 501(c)(3).  p 
 p  strong PARCA’s Vision and Mission  strong   p 
 p Our vision is a world where the rhinoceros lives free from the threat of extinction in natural habitats that are preserved forever.  p 
 p Our mission is to fund the relocation and protection of wild rhinos, fund the care of young rhinos orphaned by poaching, and raise public awareness about their plight.    p 
 p  strong Our Future  strong   p 
 p PARCA is working to build and expand to allow us to support many conservation efforts.  But there is no time to waste!  We must spread the word about the crisis facing the rhinoceros so that more people are aware the issue exists.  We must help people understand why this is important.  PARCA supports a variety of efforts aimed at protecting rhinos. Each year on our blog page we will share what our efforts have supported that year. You can always see current efforts and get more timely updates from our Facebook page (PARCA, Inc.), Instagram account (parca_rhinos), and on Twitter (@PARCArhinos).  p 
 p style="margin-top: -10px; font-size: 17px !important; line-height: 24px !important; text-align: left;" PARCA has built and will continue to build partnerships with conservation groups in Africa, all working with one single goal in mind: to protect these amazing animals and their habitat.  p 
 p style="margin-top: -10px; font-size: 17px !important; line-height: 24px !important; text-align: left;" We will continue to build partnerships with people and organizations doing work that includes moving rhinos, caring for victims of poaching and   or their orphans, and supporting rangers.  There is much work to be done.  We invite you to join us and thank you for caring.  p 
 p style="margin-top: -10px; font-size: 17px !important; line-height: 24px !important; text-align: left;" We are particularly proud of our first partnership with Great Plains Conservation. We formed in large part because of that partnership and we support their joint Rhinos Without Borders program that moves rhinos out of high poaching areas to areas of safety. PARCA is thrilled that we have funded the move of two rhinos by Rhinos Without Borders. “Liberty” and “Franklin” were moved to safety in 2017 and 2018.  p 
 p style="margin-top: -10px; font-size: 17px !important; line-height: 24px !important; text-align: left;" PARCA’s work in 2019 will include supporting the monitoring of the translocated rhinos in Botswana and supporting the care of orphans at Care for Wild Rhino Sanctuary in South Africa whose moms were victims of poaching. We look forward to keeping you informed about our work and thank you for your support!  p 
 p style="text-align: left;" 
  p 
 p style="text-align: right; font-size: 70%;"  a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=w67GDZqX_Z8" Video  a  courtesy of the  a href="http:  greatplainsfoundation.com " Great Plains Foundation  a   p 
 p class="email" Email:  a href="mailto:parcasavesrhinos@gmail.com" parcasavesrhinos@gmail.com  a   p 
 p class="web" Web:  a href="http:  www.parcainc.org" http:  www.parcainc.org  a   p 
