 p Rhinos are an important conservation concern, yet building successful breeding programs within zoos has been challenging. Only a fraction of Southern white rhinos born in managed programs go on to reproduce calves of their own. Southern white rhinos are very social animals and usually only breed when maintained in groups. As early programs were being developed for  em the Wilds  em , it made sense to think herds of rhinos could be managed within our wide open spaces. Working as part of the AZA Southern White Rhinoceros Species Survival Plan, our breeding program began slowly but now enjoys  em success unmatched by any program outside of Africa  em .  em The Wilds  em has the only managed program with Southern white rhinos born into the fourth generation in human care.  p 
 p Many of the Southern white rhino herds in the United States started with animals from the Umfolozi Game Reserve in South Africa; the rhino conservation program largely responsible for saving this species from extinction. Southern white rhino females imported from Umfolozi and held by King’s Island in their Wild Animal Habitat eventually moved to  em the Wilds  em  to form the core of our original herd. Most of these females had produced at least one calf earlier in their lifetime, but had not been bred for over fourteen years. Early breeding attempts at em the Wilds   em were unsuccessful. After the arrival of two younger females arrived from Florida in 2001, things started to change. Although both females were old enough to reproduce and spent their early years in breeding herds, neither had bred before coming to  em the Wilds  em . Within two years, both of these young females were pregnant and the first white rhino calf was born in October, 2004 with the second arriving in February, 2005.  p 
 p Our rhino facilities were designed to allow herds room to expand so calves born at  em the Wilds   em would have the opportunity to grow up in a natural group setting. Males can stay with the breeding group until they are three years old, which provides exposure to important social behaviors that should help them integrate into a new herd as a breeding bull in the future. Young females stay with the herd alongside their mothers and the other older females, watching and learning as each new calf is born. The two females that started our herd were second generation animals, and their third generation daughters born at  em the Wilds  em  have matured and produced fourth generation calves of their own. We are waiting and watching these youngsters carefully as they will soon be old enough to produce fifth generation calves.  p 
 p The Southern white rhino herd at  em the Wilds   em has changed in its composition and also continued to grow over the past ten years, including three additional calves born this fall and winter. The most recent calf in January was the seventh born into the fourth generation and our fifteenth Southern white rhino birth overall.  em The Wilds’   em Southern white rhino herd in 2003 was comprised of nine animals born in other zoos, while all but two of today’s entire herd of fourteen white rhinos was born at  em the Wilds  em . In the same ten years, we have sent eleven white rhinos to other zoos: some were older, non-breeding females which needed to move on to ensure space for younger females, while others were young males that needed a new home before they presented a challenge to the breeding males or to make room for new bloodlines. Since  em the Wilds  em  is one of the few places consistently producing Southern white rhino calves, and the animals growing up here are going on to have their own offspring, our herd will continue to play an important role in the long-term sustainability of this species.  p 
