 p Poaching and illegal trafficking of rhino horn has increased sharply since 2007 and remains one of the major reasons rhinos are still endangered today. Poaching is big business, and well organised criminal gangs are now well-equipped to track and kill rhinos. One rhino horn can fetch in excess of an incredible £200,000. Political and economic instability within countries can increase the threat of poaching too.  p 
 p Rhino horn trade has been banned under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) since 1977, yet the black-market demand for horn is high. Driven by Asian countries, particularly Vietnam and China. It is used in traditional Asian medicine, though there is no scientific evidence that horn is beneficial as a remedy. More recently, and particularly among the middle and upper-classes of Vietnam, the purchase of rhino horn signifies someone’s wealth and success. It is used as a status symbol. Read more about rhino poaching here:  a href=" rhino-poaching " https:  www.helpingrhinos.org rhino-poaching   a   p 
 p    p 
 p Habitat loss is the other major threat to rhino populations. As more and more land is cleared for agriculture there is less available space for rhinos to thrive in. Rhinos need a large area in which to feed and roam. If rhino populations end up fragmented, with no safe ‘corridors’ to travel through, chances of successful breeding and recovery will decline further.  p 
 p    p 
 p There are five species of rhino surviving today – Black, White, Greater One-Horned (or Indian), Javan and Sumatran and several sub-species within these groups.  a href=" 5-species-of-rhino " https:  www.helpingrhinos.org 5-species-of-rhino   a   p 
 p There are three species of rhino in Asia, two of which are ‘critically endangered’ the Javan and Sumatran rhino. There are only around 65 Javan rhinos left in the world and around 100 Sumatran rhinos. The Javan rhino is one of the rarest large mammals on earth, and was declared extinct in Vietnam in 2011. The Greater One-Horned rhino has increased in numbers up to 3,550 from only 200 in 1900. The third Asian species is listed as ‘vulnerable’. Numbers have increased due to successful conservation efforts, though the species is still poached for its horn in India and Nepal.  p 
 p The remaining two species are found in Africa. The Black rhino is ‘critically endangered’. With only around 5,000 remaining. Numbers of Black rhino dropped by a staggering 96% between 1970 and 1995 but thanks to concerted conservation efforts, their numbers are now rising.  p 
 p White rhinos are classified as ‘near threatened’. There are now around 20,000 living across Africa, yet the increase in poaching levels is once again threatening these populations.  p 
 p The subspecies Western Black rhino and Northern White rhinos are now extinct in the wild. The only two remaining Northern White rhinos live at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in Kenya. The last Northern White male, Sudan, died in March 2018 of age related issues. You can read our heartfelt tribute to him here:  a href=" sudan-tribute " https:  www.helpingrhinos.org sudan-tribute   a   p 
 p Helping Rhinos is committed to working with key rhino conservation partners to ensure the long-term survival of rhino in their natural habitat and support initiatives to grow their numbers. There are lots of ways you can get involved to help rhinos from adopting a rhino to spreading awareness of rhinos on social media and organising your own fundraising events.  p 
 p Here are some of the ways you can get involved to help rhinos:  p 
 p Adopt a baby rhino orphan to help with their care and rehabilitation:  p 
 p  a href=" https:  www.helpingrhinos.org adopt-a-rhino-orphan  " class="btn btn-success" Adopt a Rhino Orphan  a   p 
 p Donate to Helping Rhinos to ensure we can continue our work with rhinos:  p 
 p  a href=" https:  www.helpingrhinos.org adopt-a-rhino-orphan  " class="btn btn-success" Donate HERE  a   p 
 p Wear and show your support for rhinos by visiting our online shop:  p 
 p  a href=" shop " class="btn btn-success" Vist the Helping Rhinos shop  a   p 
 p Join us at a Helping Rhinos event by keeping an eye on our events page or set up your own fundraiser here:  p 
 p  a href=" events " class="btn btn-success" Join Helping Rhinos at an event  a   p 
 p Spread the word – tell people about Helping Rhinos, share our rhino stories and follow us on social media:  p 
 p  strong Together we can work towards ensuring the survival of all species of rhino.  strong   p 
 p  2019 © All Rights Reserved.  a href="http:  www.brainiacmedia.net" target="_blank" Website Design  a   a href=" links " links  a   p 
 p  a class="color-green" id="forgottenPasswordLink" href="#" data-toggle="modal" data-target=".forgottenpassword" Reset your password.  a   p 
 p Sign up to receive the latest Helping Rhinos news, details of upcoming events and how you can help rhinos, delivered directly to your inbox.  p 
 p We will not pass your data onto any 3rd parties without prior permission from you. See our  a href=" privacy-policy " privacy policy  a  for full details.  p 
