 p style="text-align: center;" The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek, which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African species, the white rhinoceros, and the black rhinoceros.  p 
 p The main difference between black and white rhinos is the shape of their mouths – white rhinos have broad flat lips for grazing, whereas black rhinos have long pointed lips for eating foliage. Then we have the three Asian species, The Indian rhinoceros the Javan rhinoceros and The Sumatran rhinoceros.  p 
 p style="text-align: left;"    p 
 p Rhinoceroses are, generally, solitary animals that prefer to live an independent life. White Rhinos tend to be a little more social. However, they all demand their own territories, particularly the males of the species. In order to ensure that they can secure their territory, certain behaviour has been established. This behaviour is sometimes aggressive and sometimes displayed merely as a warning.  p 
 p All types of Rhino are herbivores, meaning they strictly feed upon vegetation. Their diet doesn't require them to hunt, hence they spend most of their time browsing and or grazing through their natural habitat in search of plants and grasses.  p 
 p Bali Safari has successfully done a breeding program for White Rhino from Africa. Born in 2015, she is a healthy little beauty called Pembe. Visitors can now see her and her mother on the Safari journey.  p 
 p Other than the African Rhino, Taman Safari Indonesia is also active in Indonesian Rhino conservation program. Indonesia has 2 types of Rhino; Sumatran Rhino has two horns and Javan Rhino has one horn. Both are critically endangered based on IUCN's RedList. Taman Safari Indonesia established an in-situ conservation facility and released two Sumatran Rhino in Way Kambas National Park in Lampung.  p 
 p There are five different species of rhino today. These are the Black, White, Javan, Sumatran and Indian rhinos.  p 
 p We have hundreds of animals in our park from over 100 species, including some of the rarest and endangered.  p 
 p Not only are we one of the leading wildlife conservations in Indonesia, we are devoted to caring for the animals in our own safari. We ensure the highest standards of wellbeing is given to all our animals.  p 
 p Browse below to see the animals that we have given a loving home to.  p 
 p The world's largest land mammals gather in groups and are led by females! It requires them to drink 150 litres of water per day to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live [...]  p 
 p The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek: which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African [...]  p 
 p The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, [...]  p 
 p Tigers are as majestic as they appear. The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of [...]  p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali – Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show   Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Theme Park  p 
 p  strong Bali Safari &amp; Marine Park  strong   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Green Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com "  strong Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" Copyright © 2019. br All rights reserved.  p 
