 p Blue, a 1-year-old  strong female ostrich  strong  that arrived at  strong Seneca Park Zoo  strong  in August to join its new  strong Animals of the Savanna  strong  exhibit, died Tuesday after being injured by another of the exhibit's animals, a  strong southern white rhino  strong  named Bill, the zoo announced on its Instagram account.  p 
 p Initially, Blue was housed in the exhibit’s giraffe and zebra habitat, the zoo said in its Instagram post. The plan was to have Blue and  strong the zoo’s other female ostrich  strong , Echo, cohabitate with Bill.  p 
 p “Ostriches and rhinos live together in their natural range in Africa” and at a number of zoos accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, and are not predators of each other, the post explained.   p 
 p An "introduction process” among Blue, Echo, also 1, and Bill, 13, began last week. However, on Tuesday, there was a “physical incident” between Bill and Blue. Zoo director Larry Staub declined to describe what happened between the two animals, but Blue was seriously injured. And although immediate action was taken to save her life, she did not survive.  p 
 p The situation occurred before the zoo opened in the morning, so no visitors were present, Staub said.   p 
 p Bill was uninjured. Echo has been returned to the giraffe and zebra habitat.  p 
 p Staub said: "We're evaluating our ostrich program at this point, which is in its infancy. Are we going to continue with that program? We’re not going to put ostriches and a rhino together — not with this particular rhino after what happened on Tuesday. Which is too bad because that is what the habitat was designed for."  p 
 p If the zoo opted to discontinue its ostrich program, Echo would go to another zoo, he said. But a decision on how to proceed won't be made until the spring.   p 
 p Staub actually named the ostriches Blue and Echo because they reminded him of the raptors from the  em Jurassic Park  em  movies. "They're just really captivating and fascinating and kind of goofy," he said, adding that he felt a connection to the two, "as did a lot of people," based on the social-media outpouring following Blue's death.  p 
 p Blue and Echo were from the same ostrich farm in New Jersey, he said.  p 
 p  strong style="margin-right:3px;" More:   strong Rochester's zoo will undergo ambitious renovation  p 
 p    p 
