 p id="breadcrumbs"  span  span  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com " Home  a  »  strong class="breadcrumb_last" African Big 5  strong   span   span   p 
 p class="ez-toc-title" Quick Links  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 16px; color: #000000;" Big game hunters realized the Term "Big 5 or African Big 5" and refers to the most difficult 5 animals to  strong Hunt by Foot  strong .  span   p 
 p    p 
 p  span style="color: #808080;" Planning a Safari to Africa then the  strong Big 5  strong  quickly comes to mind, these incredible and magnificent animals are unique and splendid in their own. Witnessing any of the Big 5 will truly remain embedded for years to come.   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #808080;" In this article you will learn all there is to know about the Big 5.   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #808080;" Each Animal below has a dedicated page with more relevant information on each animal in Africa. We hope and trust you'll enjoy the relevant information of the African Big 5 and their big 5 personality traits.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16px; color: #808080;" Self drive or organised safaris are the best ways to witness these amazing animals, bear in mind that the Leopard has to be one of the most difficult and is most often witnessed at night.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 22px; color: #ff0000;" In Africa the most feared African Big 5  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #808080;" The African Lion is the second largest cat in the world the Tiger being the largest. Lion's are social and live in groups called a Pride. A pride can have up to 3 males and the rest will be females and their young. The pride size will depend on the availability of food and water. A Lion's roar can be heard as far a way as 8 km. A prides territory can extend as far as 260 square kilometers. It is the male's that will protect this territory. The thick mane of a male Lion safeguards them from fights. Female Lions primary job is to hunt and care for their young. Being smaller and slower they hunt together contributing to their successful rates.  span   p 
 p Almost anything that they can catch. Typically more than half of their food comes from scavenging. After a hunt the male Lions will more than often chase the females away so that they can eat first.  p 
 p African Lion's live in Central and Southern Africa. They once roamed freely however due to urbanization and agriculture they no longer roam freely. One may encounter Lion's in Parks and Reserves and Zoo's.  p 
 p A small population of Asiatic lions exists in India's Gir Forest, African Lion's and Asiatic Lions are sub species of the same species.  p 
 p In Africa Lion's live in Botswana, Mozambique, Tanzania, Angola, The central African Republic, South Sudan and other parts of sub Saharan Africa. Lions may wonder and incredible territory of upto 260 square kilometers. This area may consist of open woodlands, grasslands and scrub.  p 
 p Historically Lions where even found in Greece through to the middle East to Northern India.  p 
 p    p 
 p An impressive  strong 80 km h  strong  however only for short bursts. They can leap as far as 11 meters. Therefore a Lion has to be close to its prey before the chase can start. Lions will usually hunt in packs (females predominantly).  p 
 p Cheetah's remain faster than Lion's at an impressive speed of  strong 80 - 120 km h  strong .  p 
 p  strong Top 5 Fastest Land Animals on Earth:  strong   p 
 p In the wild 10 to 14 years.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Scientific Name of Lion:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Weight:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Status:  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Panthera leo  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px; color: #000000;" 190 kg Male   130 kg Female  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 16px; color: #ff0000;" Vulnerable  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" The role that Lion's play in the environment is crucial. Without them entire ecosystems could falter. Experts estimate that by 2050 they could be near extinction. They play a vital role in the food-chain in assisting the control of the herbivore population.   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Should the herbivore population not be regulated, then the population could cause competition among-st themselves and even cause some of them to go extinct. Lions have been known to kill large herbivores such as Giraffe and Elephant. Preying on herd animals Lions do prey on the weakest thus keeping the population resilient and healthy. Thus controlling parasites.  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Lion truly is King of the Jungle. Unfortunately Lion Populations are dwindling. Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park is a Part of Africa where Lion sightings are frequent and magnificent. See our article on  span style="color: #0000ff;"  a style="color: #0000ff;" href=".. lions-in-trees " Lions in Trees  a   span .  span   p 
 p Are one of the African Big 5, they are primarily nocturnal animals. They are not social and prefer to live a solitary life. Agile and are superb swimmers. They can leap up to 6 meters, they will usually take their prey into trees where they are more protected from other predators. Leopards can run up to 57 km h.  p 
 p Gestation period of 90 to 105 days with a litter of 1 to 6 kittens. Cubs will suckle for 3 months and kept hidden for up to 8 weeks. Leopards have the largest territory of all the big cats. This ability has ensured their survival in various geographic areas. Leopards are carnivores and are of the best ambush predators.  p 
 p They are not picky eaters, and will prey on anything that comes along their path this includes gazelles, cheetah cubs, baboons, rodents, monkeys, snakes, large birds, amphibians, fish, antelopes, warthogs and porcupines.  p 
 p These large cats can live in almost any type of habitat. To tell the truth, leopards live in more places than any other large cat  p 
 p 12 to 17 years in the wild.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Scientific Name:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Weight:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Status:  strong   span   p 
 p Panthera pardus  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px;" 17 to 90 kg  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px; color: #ff0000;" Endangered   span   p 
 p Like that of the Lion, Leopards too play a vital role in the ecosystem in which they find themselves. Leopards today are unfortunately endangered. They have fared slightly better than other big cats due to their wide distribution and adaptability. Loss of habitat and prey has greatly diminished the numbers of these magnificent cats.  p 
 p Can live up to 70 years in the wild. They are the largest of all land mammals, and can spend up to 16 hours a day eating. They consume between 300 two 500 pounds of food per day. They have bad eyesight however the largest brains in the animal kingdom. Males will only leave the herd at the age of between 12 to 15 years.  p 
 p Elephants can give birth every 3 to 4 years and the gestation period is 2 years. Babies when born can weigh approximately 250 pounds. It is the only mammal that can not jump. The average weight of an elephant heart is between 27 to 47 pounds. Only at the age of, 16 can the female Elephant reproduce but rarely has more than 4 children.  p 
 p Elephants consume grasses, small plants, bushes, fruit, twigs, tree bark, and roots.  p 
 p African wild Elephants will sleep lying down at night for .67 to 2 hours at a time. They may also sleep during the day.Elephants are the shortest sleeping mammal.  p 
 p Their are only two Elephant species namely the African and Asian Elephant.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Scientific Name:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Weight:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Status:  strong   span   p 
 p Loxodonta  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px;" 2000 to 6000 kg  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px; color: #ff0000;" Endangered   span   p 
 p The tusk of an elephant is in actual fact incisors that grow throughout the elephants life. Growing an average of 7 inches per year. They are used to dig for salt, water and roots, debark trees clear paths and occasionally fight.The elephants ears are enormous and are used to cool the body down when warm.Their is a very structured order in elephants. The femals spend their lives in tight family groups of grandmothers, mothers, aunts, sisters and daughters. The eldest female would usually lead the group.  p 
 p The White Rhino or Square Lipped Rhino is the largest of the 5 Rhino species. The large square lipped mouth is used to graze. They are also the most social of all rhino species. Originally mistranslated from dutch to English the wide rhino was named white rhino. Commonly known as a crash of Rhino's. Female become sexually mature at the age of 6 years. Males 10 to 12 years. Gestation of 16 months.  p 
 p White Rhino graze on grass, large heads and squared lips. Black Rhino's are browsers and feed on trees and bushes they will use their lips to pluck leaves and fruit from trees.  p 
 p Rhino's can also sleep standing or lying down. They can sleep upto 8 hours at a time and can be seen lying about under trees having a nap on warmer days.  p 
 p Their are 5 species of Rhino, white, black, greater one-horned, Sumatran and Javan Rhino.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Scientific Name:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Weight:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Status:  strong   span   p 
 p Rhinocerotidae  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px;" White: 2300 kg Black: 1400 kg  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px; color: #ff0000;" Black Rhino Critically Endangered   span   p 
 p Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park has the largest population of White Rhino in the world. Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park is also world renown for it's safe the Rhino campaign where Rhinos where saved from near extinction. Methods and techniques developed in Hluhluwe are still in use today for game capture. Visit the centenary center where can still today witness some of the artifacts used. Rhino's can be seen wallowing in mud which is done to cool them down. White Rhino's can run very fast considering their size upto 40 km h in short bursts.  p 
 p White Rhino scientific name: Ceratotherium simum  p 
 p African Buffalo have incredible sense of smell compared to that of their eye sight and hearing abilities. Buffalo will travel through water due to the fact that Lion's don't like to get wet. When herds travel the younger or weaker will stay in the center of the herd as a protective measure. Buffalo are seriously aggressive if injured and hence the fact that they are one of the African Big 5.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Scientific Name:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Weight:   strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff6600;"  strong Status:  strong   span   p 
 p Syncerus caffer  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px;" 590 kg  span   p 
 p  span style="font-size: 14px; color: #ff0000;" Population Decreasing  span   p 
 p Buffalo are known as ambush hunters, they kill more hunters than any other animal. The Buffalo's (hide) neck can be as thick as 2 inches. Buffalo have exceptional memories. One will usually see birds sitting on Buffalo these are Ox-peckers and they remove ticks and insects from the Buffalo. Lone Buffalo are usually known as Dagga Boys they are older and have passed their prime and have been separated from the herd.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #000000;" Many factors are used to assess a species' conservation status, including: the number remaining, the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates and known threats.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #000000;" The conservation status of a species is an indicator of how likely it is to remain alive at present or in the near future. Many factors are used to assess a species' conservation status, including: the number remaining, the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates and known threats.  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Likely to become endangered unless the circumstances that are threatening its survival and reproduction improve.  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Any species that is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range  span   p 
 p  span style="color: #000000;" Species is one which has been categorized by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the wild.  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com african-big-5 lion " In-Depth Lion Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com african-big-5 leopard " In-Depth Leopard Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com african-big-5 rhinoceros-black-white-rhino " In-Depth Rhino Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com african-big-5 elephant " In-Depth Elephant Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com african-big-5 cape-buffalo " In-Depth Cape Buffalo Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com vultures-facts-info " Vulture Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com aardvark-facts-information " Aardvark Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com cheetah-facts-info " Cheetah Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com nile-crocodile-facts " Nile Crocodile Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com impala-facts " Impala Facts  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" Heritage Tours &amp; Safaris was established in 2003, the company is based in the heart of KwaZulu Natal, South Africa. Todate the company is the largest privately owned safari tour company and would like to invite you to discover the true beauty that Zululand has to offer.  p 
 p  span style="color: #ffffff;"  a style="color: #ffffff;" href="http:  www.heritagetoursandsafaris.com" Heritage Tours &amp; Safaris  a  would like to invite you to discover the true Zululand, South Africa. The company offers a wide variety of day safaris and overnight safari packages. Established in 2003 the company is today the largest privately owned safari specialist company in Zululand.  span   p 
 p  a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com contact " Contact  a  
 a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com terms " Terms &amp; Conditions  a   a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a   a href="https:  hluhluwegamereserve.com website-disclaimer " Website Disclaimer  a   p 
