 p class="blog-author" 
                                         span Posted by  span  a href=" author jamie-woolley "  Jamie Woolley   a 
                                         span  -   span  30th March 2016
                                      p 
 p Good news for rhino fans: last week, researchers announced the  a href="http:  wwf.panda.org wwf_news ?264130 New-hope-for-Sumatran-rhino-in-Borneo" first live encounter with a Sumatran rhino  a  in Borneo for over 40 years. But the human pressures that have pushed this species to the brink of extinction are still very much in play.  p 
 p An excited WWF team released details of how the female rhino was safely captured in East Kalimantan (part of Indonesian Borneo) earlier this month and is now been transported to a more protected region. Over the last few years, evidence from  a href="http:  www.thejakartapost.com news 2015 09 22 authorities-activists-find-new-home-sumatran-rhinos.html" camera traps and footprints  a  has indicated that these rhinos still survived in Borneo’s forests, but this is the first known encounter with a live animal since the early 1970s.  p 
 p The rather inaccurately-named Sumatran rhino was once found across large swathes of southern and south-east Asia, but in modern times has survived only in Malaysia and Indonesia. Just last year, it was declared extinct in the wild in Malaysia, and now Indonesia is the rhino’s last refuge.  p 
 p The discovery of one more rhino is fantastic, but in reality this news does little to secure the future of the species as a whole. These rhinos are still perilously close to extinction, surviving in tiny, scattered populations which are exquisitely vulnerable to any kind of threat, of which there are many.  p 
 p A significant problem is the destruction of the rhinos’ rainforest habitat, largely due to the ongoing expansion of the palm oil and pulpwood industries. In fact, some of the East Kalimantan rhinos have been detected in  a href="http:  www.thejakartapost.com news 2015 09 22 authorities-activists-find-new-home-sumatran-rhinos.html" an area containing oil palm plantations  a , as well as a coal mine and ‘production forest’ (which are areas in which selected trees are logged, damaging and degrading the forest, or opening them up to plantations).  p 
 p Taking away the trees robs the rhinos of their natural food sources and according to WWF they’re often  a href="http:  wwf.panda.org what_we_do endangered_species rhinoceros asian_rhinos sumatran_rhinoceros " forced to venture into logged areas  a  to feed on new plant growth or crops. This makes them more vulnerable to the most direct and imminent threat: poaching. Rhino horn – even the relatively small ones possessed by Sumatran rhinos – fetch huge prices and rhinos are valuable targets even though trade is illegal.  p 
 p The double whammy of habitat loss and poaching has reduced rhino numbers to perilously low levels. The latest reports suggest there are little more than 100 left in the wild. These tiny populations living in fragments of forest also become susceptible to chance local events like disease or natural disasters, so it can take just one freak storm to obliterate a small outlying group and nudge the species even closer to extinction. Without the means to travel about safely under forest cover, these groups can’t meet to interbreed and genetic diversity becomes an issue as inbreeding leads to less healthy and less successful rhinos.  p 
 p Diseases and storms will always happen though. What needs to change is human behaviour. The commercial drive to turn ever-increasing areas of forest over to plantation industries must be challenged because this isn’t just a problem for the Sumatran rhino. Orang-utans, tigers, and elephants are the species that are conspicuously disappearing, but habitat loss also affects less charismatic creatures like amphibians and insects, as well as trees such as ramin which is protected internationally but also logged illegally.  p 
 p The newly-discovered rhino is being shepherded to relative safety and her presence does increase the chances of survival if she can give birth to healthy calves, but so much more needs to be done. Protecting forests on a grand scale is the only way we’re going to prevent these species from slipping away – not just pockets here and there, but at landscape and ecosystem levels to provide the huge areas that large animals like tigers and elephants need to survive, as well as the space for millions of forest species to thrive.  p 
 p Without a wholesale shift to safeguarding entire forests, Sumatran rhinos and many species have little chance of surviving outside zoos. And that is a sad, sad thought.  p 
 p 
                 strong Article Tagged as:  strong 
                                     a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk category featured " Featured  a , 
                                     a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk category forests indonesia " Indonesia  a , 
                                     a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk tag wwf " WWF  a 
                              p 
 p Comments have been flooding onto Velvet’s Facebook page, admonishing the company for using pulp from vital parts of the Great Northern Forest in their toilet paper. Customers are appalled that spectacular and important forests are being wiped away for luxury loo roll. Velvet has been forced to post a…  a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk velvets-claim-protecting-forests-flushed-away " class="read-more" Read More  a   p 
 p Jamie Woolley - 10th October 2017  p 
 p Some bad news, I’m afraid – Standard Chartered’s new palm oil policy is out and it fails to protect forests. They’ve updated their commitments on lending money to palm oil companies. But there are so many loopholes, it won’t stop their customers tearing down forests in Indonesia and elsewhere.  a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk standard-chartered-fails-to-protect-forests " class="read-more" Read More  a   p 
 p Jamie Woolley - 9th August 2017  p 
 p Standard Chartered might not be that well known in the UK, but they’re a major global bank. They’re also heavily involved in the palm oil business and our investigations have shown that they’re funding some of the worst companies out there. Back in March, after thousands of Greenpeace supporters…  a href="https:  www.greenpeace.org.uk standard-chartered-funding-forest-destroyers " class="read-more" Read More  a   p 
 p Jamie Woolley - 26th July 2017  p 
 p Greenpeace relies on donations from generous individuals to carry out our work. Please support us today.  p 
 p Greenpeace is people like you. br 
People who are passionate about protecting the Earth through positive action. Together, we are unstoppable. br 
Join us.  p 
