 p class="published" 
      Updated 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 20, 2018 17:25:11
      span 
      p 
 p Rhinos in Australia might seem like an insane proposition — after all, we've had  a href="https:  theconversation.com for-whom-the-bell-tolls-cats-kill-more-than-a-million-australian-birds-every-day-85084" historically bad luck  a  with introduced species. But on reflection it's not quite as crazy as it sounds.  p 
 p There are five species of rhinoceros in the world: two in Africa and three in Asia.  p 
 p The world of all five species is being rapidly destroyed and shredded, their savanna and forest habitats sliced apart by clearings,  a href="http:  alert-conservation.org issues-research-highlights 2018 4 3 fatal-fences-are-decimating-nature" fences  a , roads and other obstructions.  p 
 p Even worse, they are being slaughtered by armed poachers for their  a href="https:  www.theatlantic.com business archive 2013 05 why-does-a-rhino-horn-cost-300-000-because-vietnam-thinks-it-cures-cancer-and-hangovers 275881 " valuable rhino horn  a , which is falsely thought to have aphrodisiac or curative properties for maladies ranging from hangovers to cancer.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.latimes.com world africa la-fg-vietnam-rhino-trafficking-20160926-snap-story.html" Vietnam  a  and China are overwhelmingly the biggest consumers of rhino horn. Chinese citizens and even diplomats working in Africa and Asia have  a href="https:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2017 07 wildlife-watch-rhino-horn-china " reportedly engaged  a  in the illegal smuggling of rhino horn and other wildlife products.  p 
 p Rhinos are relicts of a great  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Megafauna" megafauna  a  that until recently dominated the planet. Today, they are some of the most endangered animals on Earth.  p 
 p For instance, the  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Sumatran_rhinoceros" Sumatran rhinoceros  a  is so rare that biologists refuse to disclose where it still lives, to avoid tipping off poachers — beyond confirming it persists in small pockets of northern Sumatra, Indonesia.  p 
 p The  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Javan_rhinoceros" Javan rhinoceros  a  was once the most abundant rhino species in Asia, ranging from South-East Asia to India and China. But today it is one of the rarest mammals on Earth, with  a href="https:  news.mongabay.com 2017 09 can-the-javan-rhino-be-saved-before-disaster-strikes ?n3wsletter&amp;utm_source=Mongabay+Newsletter&amp;utm_campaign=353560c644-newsletter_2017_09_28&amp;utm_medium=email&amp;utm_term=0_940652e1f4-353560c644-67241623" just 60 animals  a  surviving in far western Java, Indonesia.  p 
 p In Africa, white rhinos and black rhinos are having mixed fortunes — but mostly bad.  p 
 p The  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Black_rhinoceros" black rhino  a  was once widely distributed across eastern and southern Africa, but its numbers have dramatically fallen and nearly half of its unique subspecies have vanished.  p 
 p The  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki White_rhinoceros" white rhino  a  has two distinct subspecies. The southern subspecies collapsed to just 20 individuals a century ago, but with dedicated protection it has made an astounding comeback — to around 20,000 animals today, by far the most numerous of all rhinos.  p 
 p But the northern white rhino is virtually gone. The last male  a href="https:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2018 03 northern-white-rhino-male-sudan-death-extinction-spd " died on March 19  a , and only two females are alive in captivity.  p 
 p In recent weeks scientists have used frozen sperm and harvested eggs to create a few  a href=" news science 2018-07-05 hybrid-ivf-embryos-attempt-to-save-northern-white-rhinos 9935274" target="_self" title="" test-tube embryos  a , which they hope to implant into a southern female in a last-ditch effort to stave off the northern subspecies' demise.  p 
 p    p 
 p All of this means that most of the nations with rhino populations are having profound difficulties maintaining them. Not that it's easy. Rhinos are big, near-sighted, and rather predictable in their habits — easy prey for poachers.  p 
 p They live in developing nations with many impoverished people, where lethal weapons are frighteningly common and  a href="https:  www.fragilestates.org 2012 06 17 rule-of-law-developing-countries " the rule of law is precarious  a .  p 
 p And they have horns worth  a href="https:  qz.com 82302 theres-a-country-that-will-pay-300000-per-rhino-horn-to-cure-cancer-and-hangovers-and-its-wiping-out-rhinos " up to $US300,000 each  a .  p 
 p    p 
 p In efforts to staunch the slaughter, some nations are  a href="https:  theconversation.com dehorning-rhinos-why-there-may-be-a-case-for-doing-it-64902" de-horning  a  their rhinos, or assigning guards to watch over them day and night, like heavily-armed sheep herders.  p 
 p South Africa is even treating rhino-horn powder with  a href="https:  www.iol.co.za news rhino-horn-poison-extremely-toxic-1575937" powerful poisons  a  to help scare off illicit consumers.  p 
 p  a href="http:  alert-conservation.org issues-research-highlights 2014 5 8 melbourne-woman-combats-illegal-rhino-horn-trade?rq=rhino" Lynn Johnson  a , an enterprising Melbourne businesswoman, has raised tens of thousands of dollars to place ads in Vietnamese magazines and newspapers, warning about the poisons and decrying the rhino slaughter.  p 
 p Such measures are certainly helping, but it's a fraught battle.  a href="https:  theconversation.com the-global-road-building-explosion-is-shattering-nature-70489" Roads are proliferating dramatically  a  in developing nations, increasing access to ecosystems for poachers. And  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Projections_of_population_growth" human populations  a  and the many pressures they bring are growing rapidly in Africa and Asia.  p 
 p Some experts believe that  a href="https:  news.mongabay.com 2016 11 from-ohio-to-indonesia-captive-bred-sumatran-rhinos-may-be-the-species-only-hope-for-a-future " captive breeding  a  is the most viable near-term solution, especially for the distressingly rare Sumatran and Javan rhinos. Maintaining them in zoos or breeding facilities keeps alive the hope that they might one day be reintroduced to the wild.  p 
 p But why not introduce rhinos to Australia? Before you laugh out loud, consider this.  p 
 p Australia has abundant savannas, woodlands and rainforests that the various species of rhinos need to survive. And rhinos are generalist grazers or browsers, meaning they are not especially picky about what they eat.  p 
 p Australia has a strong rule of law and minimal wildlife poaching, with  a href="http:  www.australiangeographic.com.au travel destinations 2009 09 ecotourism-at-one-with-nature" huge numbers of ecotourists  a  who would surely be keen to see spectacular rhinos. One group, the  a href="http:  www.theaustralianrhinoproject.org " Australian Rhino Project  a , is already trying to establish a white rhino population in Australasia.  p 
 p But while I might be crazy, I'm not stupid.  p 
 p I am  em not  em  suggesting that rhinos be allowed to roam free in Australia. Under such circumstances they could degrade native ecosystems and even pose a danger to people. Rather, rhinos should be contained in cattle stations or other enclosed areas.  p 
 p And I am  em not  em  suggesting that harbouring rhinos in Australia would mean reducing efforts to save them in the wild or conserve their crucial habitats.  p 
 p Indeed, preserving rhinos without protecting their native ecosystems is like saving a few shiny baubles from Christmas, while throwing away the Christmas tree that held them.  p 
 p    p 
 p Rather, the idea would be to establish semi-wild or managed populations that could buffer rhinos against global extinction, and at the same time provide public education and raise money.  p 
 p Any effort that failed to provide revenue to conserve wild rhinos and their native habitat — especially if it competed for funding with current conservation initiatives — would be a perverse and undesirable outcome.  p 
 p Of course, when it comes down to it, introducing rhinos to Australia is a pretty wild idea. Maybe my tongue is in my cheek, and I'm just trying to get other tongues wagging about the desperate need for rhino conservation.  p 
 p But whatever we do about rhinos, it's clear that desperate times call for desperate measures.  p 
 p  strong Bill Laurance is Distinguished Research Professor and Australian Laureate, James Cook University. This article was originally published on  a href="https:  theconversation.com the-case-for-introducing-rhinos-to-australia-99585" target="_blank" title="" The Conversation  a .  strong   p 
 p class="topics" 
	 strong Topics:  strong 
	
	 a href=" news topic animals" animals  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animal-welfare" animal-welfare  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animals-and-nature" animals-and-nature  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic science-and-technology" science-and-technology  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic endangered-and-protected-species" endangered-and-protected-species  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic australia" australia  a 
	
  p 
 p class="published" 
    First posted 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 20, 2018 15:37:58
      span 
    p 
 p If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news,  a href=" news contact tip-off " target="_self" title="" contact the ABC  a .  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.abc.net.au news about backstory " target="_self" title="" ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  about.abc.net.au how-the-abc-is-run what-guides-us abc-editorial-standards " target="_self" title="" Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.  a   p 
 p Facebook removed 1.5 million videos of the Christchurch mosque attacks globally during the first 24 hours. That's their problem, and ours, writes Ariel Bogle.  p 
 p There's a lot of emotions people might be feeling in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Christchurch. Get some tips on how to be an effective ally to those who feel marginalised.  p 
 p New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is calling for the country to remember the names of the victims of the Christchurch shootings instead of the "terrorist" who "sought notoriety" through the attacks. Read her full speech.  p 
 p Hoaxes that threaten your kids one day, and turn out to be fake the next, are exhausting for kids and adults. But there are tools and tricks to help you spot a hoax.  p 
 p 
           small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small 
          p 
 p 
           small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small 
          p 
