 p The North Carolina Zoo is excited to announce the name of the female southern white rhino calf born at the Zoo on Friday, July 13, 2018.  strong “Bonnie”  strong  was one of two rhinos born within just 11 days of each other at the Zoo last month. She was born to mother Kit and father Stormy.  p 
 p Zookeepers that care for the rhino herd daily recommended the name “Bonnie” in honor of longtime zoo donors and supporters they hold in high esteem. The donors, who wish to remain anonymous, were privately informed of the naming and expressed their deep gratitude for the honor.  p 
 p Bonnie is on habitat with her half-sister Nandi (born July 2, 2018) and the rest of the rhino herd.  p 
 p The Zoo’s herd now boasts seven rhinos on public view, including Stormy, females Linda, Kit, Natalie and Abby, and calves Nandi and Bonnie. All seven can be seen on our Watani Grasslands 40-acre habitat. Two older rhinos, Stan (male) and Olivia (female) live in an off-viewing retirement habitat.  p 
 p At the beginning of the 20th century, southern white rhinos were hunted to near extinction for their horns, which some erroneously believe provide medicinal benefits. Rhino horn is constructed from keratin, which is the same material that makes up human fingernails and hair.  There are currently around 20,000 southern white rhinos left in the wild, mostly in the southern Africa region.  p 
 p Today, populations in the wild still face significant threats from poaching and habitat loss. In addition to their work with the rhinos at the North Carolina Zoo, staff work on projects in several countries in Southern Africa to protect wild rhinos from poaching and save the species from extinction.   p 
 p At the North Carolina Zoo, we celebrate nature. As the world’s largest natural habitat Zoo, we inspire a lifelong curiosity about animals for the hundreds of thousands of people who visit our Zoo each year. Our dedicated team of experts provides exceptional, compassionate care for the more than 1,800 animals and 52,000 plants that call our Park home. We also lead efforts locally and globally to protect wildlife and wild places because we believe nature’s diversity is critical for our collective future. The North Carolina Zoo invites all of our guests to witness the majesty of the wild in the heart of North Carolina and welcomes everyone to join in our mission to protect nature’s diversity. Visit  a href="https:  nczoo.org" NCZoo.org  a  to begin your life-changing journey.  p 
 p The N.C. Department of Natural and Cultural Resources (NCDNCR) is the state agency with a vision to be the leader in using the state’s natural and cultural resources to build the social, cultural, educational and economic future of North Carolina. NCDNCR’s mission is to improve the quality of life in our state by creating opportunities to experience excellence in the arts, history, libraries and nature in North Carolina by stimulating learning, inspiring creativity, preserving the state’s history, conserving the state’s natural heritage, encouraging recreation and cultural tourism, and promoting economic development.  p 
 p NCDNCR includes 27 historic sites, seven history museums, two art museums, two science museums, three aquariums and Jennette’s Pier, 39 state parks and recreation areas, the North Carolina Zoo, the nation's first state-supported Symphony Orchestra, the State Library, the State Archives, the N.C. Arts Council, State Preservation Office and the Office of State Archaeology, along with the Division of Land and Water Stewardship. For more information, please call 919- 807-7300 or visit  a href="http:  www.ncdcr.gov " www.ncdcr.gov  a .  p 
 p    p 
 p Meet Nandi and Bonnie, our two adorable southern white rhinoceros baby girls! Now playing on the Watani Grasslands.  p 
