 p Cape Nature, the leading conservation authority in the Western Cape, has denied claims that a proposed  safari park in Kleinmond will be home to lions or offer elephant rides.  p 
 p Cape Town residents and animal welfare activists have raised concerns about the plans to open the  Lamloch Safari Park on the R44.  p 
 p It's been alleged that the park will offer tourist activities such as elephant riding and other close animal encounters.  p 
 p  strong Read:  a href="http:  www.capetalk.co.za articles 337083 lone-female-elephant-left-wandering-through-the-knysna-forest" Lone female elephant left wandering through the Knysna forest  a   strong   p 
 p However, CapeNature, the regulatory authority which issues conservation permits, has dismissed these allegations in a statement provided to CapeTalk.  p 
 p Meanwhile,  a href="https:  nspca.co.za more-wild-animals-condemned-to-imprisonment " the National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA)  a  says CapeNature has not been forthcoming with information about the permits.  p 
 p NSPCA's wildlife manager Doug Wolhuter says the fynbos area is fit for shade, shelter and foraging.  p 
 p Wolhuter says it is not the appropriate habitat for elephants or black rhinos, which he says are alleged to be some of the wildlife being brought to the park.  p 
 p  strong Read also:  a href="http:  www.capetalk.co.za articles 310573 outrage-over-constantia-wine-farms-permits-to-hunt-baboons" Outrage over Constantia wine farms' permits to hunt baboons  a   strong   p 
 p From what we understand, they are at the final stages of the permit-issuing process.  p 
 p We're completely opposed to elephant interactions.  p 
 p Several antelope appear to have been approved for the game park. CapeNatuture insists that there will only be elephant walks and contact sessions, but no elephant rides on offer.  p 
 p  em CapeNature does not support, condone nor encourage non-essential human wildlife contact or interaction. CapeNature regards such activity as highly irresponsible, undesirable and potentially dangerous and urges any permit-holder to refrain therefrom at all times.As the biodiversity conservation authority in the Western Cape, CapeNature is guided by the Nature Conservation Ordinance No. 19 of 1974 and the National Norms and Standards of Elephants in South Africa.  em   p 
 p  strong Game Management Plan  strong   p 
 p  em The Lamloch Safari Park Game Management Plan was submitted to CapeNature in October 2015 and was approved during May 2018. The plan did not include activities related to human wildlife contact and was thus being compliant and in line with all the regulatory requirements and the relevant environmental legislation. The following game species has been approved for the Lamloch Safari Park: · bontebok · plains zebra · red hartebeest · Cape eland · Cape buffalo · springbok · kudu Permits for the following species have since been issued: · gemsbok · kudu · red hartebeest · springbok · eland · bontebok  em   p 
 p  em It is important to note that LSP GMP was only approved for the above species. The management plan was not approved for lion, rhino, hippo or cheetah, as has been reported on social media, and no management plan(s) has, to date, been submitted for these species.    em   p 
 p  strong Lion in captivity  strong   p 
 p  em CapeNature has not received an application for lion. Should there be a request for lion (or any other predator species) then a predator application process will need to follow, which will include a lion predator management plan submission and evaluation.   em   p 
 p  strong Elephant Management Plan  strong   p 
 p  em The Lamloch Safari Park Elephant Management Plan (EMP) is in the final stage of the evaluation process.  em   p 
 p  em The LSP EMP states that there will be elephant human contact sessions, albeit under very controlled circumstances in line with the elephant interaction rules.   em   p 
 p  em The objective of the facility as a tourism venture is to provide elephant walks in a controlled environment. No elephant riding will be offered.  em   p 
 p  em The local authority was approached with the application and it was confirmed that no listed activities in terms of NEMA will be triggered by the development.   em   p 
 p  em The acquisition, translocation and keeping of elephants must be in accordance with the National Norms andStandards of Elephants in South Africa (ENS) and the provisions of Ordinance 19 of 1974. The introduction of the elephants is subject to a final inspection and approval of the fencing and electrification of the facility. CapeNature does not permit breeding with captive elephants and therefore measures to prevent and mitigate breeding must be implemented at all times.  em   p 
 p  strong Wild horses  strong   p 
 p CapeNature’s legal mandate does not cover domesticated animals and therefore the wild horses do not form part of our permitting process.  p 
 p  strong Animal welfare  strong   p 
 p  em Animal welfare issues are addressed in terms of the Performing Animals Protection Act (PAPA), of which Lamloch Safari Park needs to get a licence from the State Vet. CapeNature does not have the legal mandate to implement the PAPA.  em   p 
 p Members of the public can partake in the public participation process of Lamloch Safari Park by  a href="https:  www.dougjeff.co.za index.php projects 132-lamloch-game-farm-and-tourist-facilities"  strong clicking here  strong   a .  p 
 p  strong  em Listen for more on The Pippa Hudson Show:   em   strong   p 
 p class="article__synopsis" MasterChef Aussie 2017 finalist Ben Ungermann talks about his culinary influences, latest business ventures and career highlights.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" A Muslim mom and former community spokesperson - now living in SA - recounts the deep-rooted history of Islamophobia in Australia.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Thanks to the groundbreaking surgery, a 35-year-old man will hear again after his ear was completely damaged in a car crash.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Some Howler users have complained about the slow refund process, while others claim to have been overcharged at events.   p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Managing Director at J2 Software John Mc Loughlin and ConsumerTalks' Wendy Knowler on how to prevent cyber attacks.
  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" The fundraising campaign 'Leave Your Mark' aims to raise R150 million in the next two years through various donors.   p 
 p class="article__synopsis" A Muslim mom and former community spokesperson - now living in SA - recounts the deep-rooted history of Islamophobia in Australia.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" eNCA reporter Aldrin Sampear and EWN's Mia Lindeque say the president experienced what ordinary South Africans endure daily.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" ANC head of elections, Fikile Mbalula says the president is hard at work to resolve Eskom's problems.    p 
 p class="article__synopsis" The tribunal approved an application for a new skyscraper in Sea Point but residents are concerned about the building's scale.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Eusebius McKaiser facillitates a debate between callers about their frustrations due to load shedding.   p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Demand management senior general manager, Andrew Etzinger provides details of why load shedding has been implemented.  p 
 p class="article__synopsis" Eskom has warned that more power cuts can be expected as maintenance continues over the next twelve months.   p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Good to Know gives subscribers insights into the most common mistakes made by consumers in South Africa.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Bruce Whitfield presents an insightful new series that celebrates great thinking and what it takes to be a solutionist thinker.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" A collection of wealth manager Warren Ingram's regular contributions to The Money Show - brought to you by RMB.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Nominate a charity that you feel is in desperate need of help.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Nedbank brings you a wrap of the day’s business news as well as insight into trends and expert advice on all things money-related.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Cape dam levels drop to 52.2%. Find out more about how to save water.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" Emirates Business delivers Adam Gilchrist to the Breakfast Show each weekday at 07:42am.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" You only live once and this World As Young As You Feel Day, CapeTalk and award-winning retirement village Evergreen Lifestyle want...  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" The power utility started implementing rolling blackouts from last week after more breakdowns at the Medupi and Kusile power stations.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" At memorial sites across Christchurch, children's heartfelt notes and drawings of young Muslims holding hands or hugging non-Muslims have been particularly poignant.  p 
 p class="entity__synopsis" The Constantia businessman is accused of killing Gill Packham in February 2018.  p 
 p class="promo__synopsis" Send your anonymous tip-offs to 32211 (SMS charged at R1) or visit  a href="http:  www.crimeline.co.za" www.crimeline.co.za  a   p 
 p class="promo__synopsis" Do the right thing. Visit  a href="http:  www.leadsa.co.za" www.leadsa.co.za  a   p 
 p class="promo__synopsis"  a href=" terms-conditions" Terms &amp; Conditions  a   p 
