 p Learn all about one of our planet’s coolest creatures with our ten strong  top rhino facts  strong !  p 
 p  strong Phylum  strong : Chordata br 
 strong Family name  strong : Rhinocerotidae br 
 strong Classification  strong : Mammal br 
 strong IUCN status  strong : Black, Javan and Sumatran rhino: Critically endangered. White rhino: Near threatened. Indian rhino: Vulnerable. br 
 strong Lifespan (in wild)  strong : br 
 strong Weight  strong : 500kg -2,500kg br 
 strong Body length  strong : 2.5m-4m long br 
 strong Top speed  strong :55km hour br 
 strong Diet  strong : Herbivore Habitat: grassy plains, rainforests and swamps.  p 
 p  strong 1)  strong  Our planet is home to  strong five species of rhinoceros  strong  – the  strong black rhino  strong  and the  strong white rhino  strong , which live in Africa, and the  strong Sumatran  strong ,  strong Javan  strong  and  strong Indian  strong   strong (or greater one-horned) rhino  strong , which inhabit the tropical forests and swamps of Asia.  p 
 p  strong 2)  strong  These brilliant beasts are known for their awesome,  strong giant horns  strong  that grow from their snouts – hence the name “rhinoceros’, meaning “nose horn”. Javan and Indian rhinos have one horn, where as the white, black and Sumatran rhinos have two.  p 
 p  strong 3)  strong  These incredible creatures are some of the biggest animals in world! The largest of the five species is the white rhino, which can grow to  strong 1.8m tall  strong  and and weigh a massive  strong 2,500kg  strong  – that’s the weight of 30 men!  p 
 p  strong 4)  strong  Despite their huge size and strength, these bulky beasts don’t prey on other animals for food. They’re  strong herbivores  strong , and instead like to munch on lots of grass and plants at night, dawn and dusk.  p 
 p  strong 5)  strong  During the heat of the day, these magnificent mammals can be found sleeping in the shade or wallowing in muddy pools to cool off.  strong They em  love  em  to get mucky  strong , in fact! Mud protects their skin from the strong sun (like a natural sunblock) and wards off biting bugs, too.  p 
 p  strong 6)  strong  For the most part, rhinoceroses are  strong solitary animals  strong  and like to avoid each other. But some species, particularly the white rhino, may live in a group, known as a ‘ strong crash  strong ’. These crashes are usually made up of a female and her calves, although sometimes adult females (called cows) can be seen together, too.  p 
 p  strong 7)  strong  Males (called ‘ strong bulls  strong ’), on the other hand, like to be left alone, unless in search of a female to breed with. They’re  strong very territorial  strong , too, and mark out their area of land with, believe it or not, poop! In fact, rhinos often use pongy piles to communicate with each other, since each individual’s dung smells unique.  p 
 p  strong 8)  strong  They may rarely hang out with each other, but they spend a lot of time with their feathered friends! Rhinos are often seen with  strong Oxpeckers  strong  (or ‘tick birds’) perched on their back, which live off the pesky parasitic insects living in the rhino’s thick skin. The birds’ loud cries also help alert their big buddies of potential danger, too!  p 
 p  strong 9)  strong  Because of their huge bodies, strong horns and thick, armour-like skin, rhinos have  strong no natural predators  strong . Nevertheless, these brilliant beasts get frightened easily! When they feel threatened, they’re instinct is to charge directly at whatever has spooked them – whether it be another animal or a harmless object!  p 
 p  strong 10)  strong  Sadly, it’s estimated that there are only around  strong 29,000 rhinos left in the wild  strong , compared to 500,000 at the beginning of the 20th century. The main threat to these beautiful animals is  strong illegal hunting  strong , largely because their horns are used in traditional folk medicine, particularly in Asia. To find out what’s being done to protect the rhino – and how you can help, too! – charge over to  strong  a href="http:  www.worldwildlife.org species rhino" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener noreferrer" worldwildlife.org  a .  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" Did you know that we have a FREE downloadable  a href="https:  www.natgeokids.com za primary-resource black-rhino-primary-resource " target="_blank" rel="noopener" black rhino primary resource  a ? Great for teachers, homeschoolers and parents alike!  p 
 p    p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p i love the rhino they are so awesome!!  p 
 p love rhinos.  p 
 p I love rhinos and I am going to help them the best I can  p 
 p Cool rhino facts  p 
 p rhinos are strong and they can also swim  p 
 p Awesome Rhino facts  p 
 p I love rhinos, these facts are very interesting! So sad that there are only 29,000 rhinos left in the world, and I want to help them when I am older.  p 
 p Cool  p 
 p amazing guiding facts!  p 
 p so sad but cool  p 
 p wow ,I ,myself think these facts are awesome I've really realized that these wonders are fading away.we should do all we can to save them.it also helped me with my school project on animals .beautiful project  p 
 p Nice facts about rhinos that was awesome LOL  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
