 p The Rhinoceros has a vast habitat that ranges from the savannas to the forests. They live in areas that are tropical and sub tropical. They need lots of food and they need to have access to water. This is why you will often find them living in close proximity to grasslands, trees, and bodies of water.  p 
 p The distinct habitats of these animals also often depends on the type of Rhinoceros you are referring to. Both the White Rhinoceros and the Black Rhinoceros live in the savannahs. Here they may be found on the plains or in the woodlands. It is dry and hot in this area. The Indian Rhinoceros though lives in the tall grass that is found very close to the rivers. The Javan Rhinoceros though lives in areas of the tropical rainforests.  p 
 p What is very interesting is that all of the species of Rhinoceros are highly adaptable to their environments. It is believed that this plays a vital role in the fact that they have been able to live for millions of years. As long as they can find food and water they are able to thrive in various areas. They are able to identify when certain plants will be ready for them to eat.  p 
 p With more than 200 of them identified as available out there they are able to dine on a variety. What will grow in a particular area is going to influence the habitat of the Rhinoceros. What grows in parts of Asia is very different from what will grow in areas of Africa. They are also known to consume tree bark if they have to in order to survive.  p 
 p The movements of the Rhinoceros is very important for their habitat. They do consume large amounts of grass and plant life. The seeds from their foods often end up being excreted from the body and onto the ground. When the wind blows or other animals come into contact with them they are further spread out. This is a huge part in making sure the environment continues to offer enough food for the Rhinoceros as well as for other animals.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Two Rhinos in the savannah of Botswana  p 
 p These animals must have water in order to survive. Many of them will go to the watering locations on a daily basis. The longest a Rhinoceros can last without water is approximately five days. Therefore the habitat where they are located will be one where there is enough water for them to live.  p 
 p The Rhinoceros is a loner so they like to have their own space. Their habitat will often overlap with others though due to the sharing of food locations and water areas. When there is a shortage of food though it can be very hard for them to not move into the range of each other. This can lead to plenty of conflicts and even battles where they use their horns to fight each other.  p 
 p Humans continue to destroy the Rhinoceros habitat and that has made it very difficult for them to survive. When areas they used to be able to feed from are cleared out it can result in them not having enough to eat. When humans establish living areas around these natural locations it can also increase the aggressive nature of these animals. When areas are cleared out it can also harm the Rhinoceros as they need shade during the day.  p 
 p They have very sensitive skin that can become sunburned. They will stay in the shade during the heat of the day and then go looking for food at dusk or they do so very early in the morning. Too much heat can cause dehydration and make them very ill.  p 
 p id="footer-copyright" Copyright 2014 BioExpedition.com  p 
 p  a rel="nofollow" href="http:  www.bioexpedition.com " The Portal of Life on Earth, Biodiversity, Animal Facts  a 
  p 
 p id="copyright" Designed by  a href="http:  www.elegantthemes.com " title="Premium WordPress Themes" Elegant Themes  a  | Powered by  a href="http:  www.wordpress.org " WordPress  a   p 
