 p Advertisement  p 
 p Supported by  p 
 p class="css-16vrk19 e1jsehar1" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http:  schema.org Person" itemid="" By !-- --   a href="https:  www.nytimes.com by javier-c-hernandez" class="css-1riqqik e1jsehar0"  span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name" Javier C. Hernández  span   a   p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" BEIJING — The Chinese government, reversing a 25-year ban, announced on Monday that it would allow the use of rhinoceros horns and tiger bones in medicine, a move that environmentalists described as a significant setback for efforts to protect the animals from extinction.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The State Council, China’s cabinet, said in a  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http:  english.gov.cn policies latest_releases 2018 10 29 content_281476367121088.htm" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" policy directive  a  that it would legalize the use of rhino horns and tiger bones for “medical research or in healing,” but only by certified hospitals and doctors, and only from rhinos and tigers raised in captivity, excluding zoo animals. While such remedies are highly profitable, they have no proven benefits to humans.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Environmentalists said the decision would likely help fuel a black market for wild rhino and tiger parts, which are revered in traditional Chinese medicine for supposed healing powers, and could lead to increased poaching of the fewer than 30,000 rhinos and 3,900 tigers still in the wild.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “It’s a devastating decision,” said Leigh Henry, director of wildlife policy at the  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.worldwildlife.org press-releases wwf-statement-on-china-s-legalization-of-domestic-trade-in-tiger-bone-and-rhino-horn" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" World Wildlife Fund  a  in Washington. “I can’t overstate the potential impact.”  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The announcement on Monday threatened to undermine President Xi Jinping’s efforts to promote an image of China as a responsible environmental steward capable of tackling global issues like climate change and air pollution.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “A small number of individuals stand to make a lot of money perhaps at the price of the species,” said Peter Knights, chief executive of WildAid, an environmental advocacy group based in San Francisco. He added that the decision “comes completely out of the blue and with no rationale.”  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" In 2016, China, along with the United States,  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2016 12 30 world asia china-ivory-ban-elephants.html?module=inline" title="" announced that it would ban  a  the sale of ivory. China’s domestic ban, which went into effect earlier this year, was  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2017 08 06 world asia china-elephant-mammoth-ivory.html?module=inline" title="" widely applauded  a  as a critical step in ending elephant poaching in Africa.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Now, just as prices for rhino horn are decreasing and populations of tigers seem to be stabilizing, the environmental advocates say, China threatens to hurt that progress.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Chinese officials on Monday did not draw attention to the reversal of the rhino horn and tiger bone bans, put in place in 1993, nor did they explain the decision.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Experts said the move was probably related to the government’s efforts to encourage the growth of traditional Chinese medicine, an industry valued at more than $100 billion, with more than 500,000 medical practitioners.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" While leaders of traditional Chinese medicine have officially discouraged the use of rhino horn and tiger bone for years, an underground trade has continued.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Rhino horn is used in Chinese medicine to treat a variety of conditions, including fevers, gout and food poisoning. Tiger bone, often turned into tiger bone wine or so-called glue, is thought to boost health, cure a range of ailments and increase virility for men. Endangered animal parts are not widely used in traditional Chinese medicine, but folk remedies incorporating them form a small but profitable market.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Mr. Xi has used Chinese medicine as a way to expand China’s overseas influence, and his government has promoted it in places like Zimbabwe and Nepal. The government hopes Chinese medicine will win global acceptance alongside Western therapies.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http:  www.xinhuanet.com english 2018-10 29 c_137567160.htm" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" Chinese state media sought to portray  a  Monday’s policy announcement as an effort to help protect rhinos and tigers by improving oversight. The regulations said that trade of rhinos, tigers and their related products was illegal, except for a handful of purposes, including medicine, scientific research and “cultural exchanges.”  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The State Council said in the announcement that the medical use of rhino and tiger parts would be strictly monitored. Only doctors certified by the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine would be allowed to administer the medicines.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" China is estimated to have 6,500 tigers in captivity as of 2010, according to the World Wildlife Fund, though the number of rhinos in captivity is unknown.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Experts said the number of animals in captivity that could be used for medicinal purposes would likely not meet the demand in China, potentially leading to increased poaching and a thriving underground trade.  p 
 p  em Follow Javier C. Hernández on Twitter:  a href="https:  twitter.com HernandezJavier" @HernandezJavier  a .  em   p 
 p Albee Zhang contributed research.  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
