 p Once thought to be the last Sehuencas water frog in the world, Romeo will finally get a mate thanks to researchers who tracked down a 'Juliet' in Bolivia.  p 
 p In 2017, footage of three adorable sand cat kittens set the internet alight. Researchers recently released a new clip of the elusive cats. Prep for cuteness ...  p 
 p Footage captured last week by a remote-operated deep sea research vessel offers a rare peek at a live shark embryo wriggling inside its egg casing.  p 
 p Right this way ... From Arctic wilderness to African floodplain to Indian rainforest, we've got films and series to take you to any corner of the globe. Pick your device and stream from only 99c. No ads, no interruptions, just nature.  p 
 p title="It’s time we talk about the (pink) elephant in the room." It’s time we talk about the (pink) elephant in the room.  p 
 p title="With tusks long enough to touch the ground, she was one of Africa's few remaining &quot;super tuskers&quot;. " With tusks long enough to touch the ground, she was one of Africa's few remaining "super tuskers".   p 
 p title="Our closest relatives show distinct cultural behaviour in different populations. But those differences are being erased." Our closest relatives show distinct cultural behaviour in different populations. But those...  p 
 p title="A team from South Africa's Two Oceans Aquarium pulled off a successful rescue mission on the weekend when an ocean sunfish became marooned in a dry dock at the V&amp;amp;A Waterfront in Cape Town." A team from South Africa's Two Oceans Aquarium pulled off a successful rescue mission on the weekend...  p 
 p title="New research shows that these transparent sea creatures sprout a fresh anus every time they poop." New research shows that these transparent sea creatures sprout a fresh anus every time they poop.  p 
 p title="Lions are successful cooperative hunters, but sometimes things don't go to plan ..." Lions are successful cooperative hunters, but sometimes things don't go to plan ...  p 
 p title="While Dr Seuss's fantastic characters were products of his seemingly endless imagination, the Lorax may actually have been inspired by a real-world moustachioed monkey from East Africa." While Dr Seuss's fantastic characters were products of his seemingly endless imagination, the Lorax...  p 
 p title="Polar bears 'invading' a Russian village have renewed concern over climate change in the Arctic, but human-wildlife conflicts are flaring up everywhere." Polar bears 'invading' a Russian village have renewed concern over climate change in the Arctic, but...  p 
 p title="Motherhood is tough. If it's not the rigorous feeding schedule, it's some predator trying to gobble up your brood. " Motherhood is tough. If it's not the rigorous feeding schedule, it's some predator trying to gobble...  p 
 p title="For the team from Nambia's rare and Endangered Species Trust, saving pangolins is part of the job." For the team from Nambia's rare and Endangered Species Trust, saving pangolins is part of the job.  p 
 p title="Poisonous secretions, dead bugs, an impaled lizard or two … In honour of Valentine’s Day, here's a look at some of the freaky things that pass as love gifts for our cousins across the animal kingdom." Poisonous secretions, dead bugs, an impaled lizard or two … In honour of Valentine’s Day, here's a...  p 
 p title="Following floods in Australia's far north this scrub python, having been swept out of its habitat, was filmed gobbling up a wallaby in a residential backyard." Following floods in Australia's far north this scrub python, having been swept out of its habitat,...  p 
 p title="Bee brains contain less than one million neurons. Despite this, new research shows the honeybee can use symbols to perform basic maths, including addition and subtraction." Bee brains contain less than one million neurons. Despite this, new research shows the honeybee can...  p 
 p title="We've said it before and we'll say it again, honey badgers are remarkably fearless." We've said it before and we'll say it again, honey badgers are remarkably fearless.  p 
 p title="The False Bay ocean food chain in Cape Town began to change significantly in 2015 with the appearance of shark-eating killer whales." The False Bay ocean food chain in Cape Town began to change significantly in 2015 with the...  p 
 p title="This bite to the rump was no laughing matter." This bite to the rump was no laughing matter.  p 
 p This film takes us on a scientific journey into the complex world of the dolphin, and investigates Professor Paul Manger’s recent assertion that dolphins are not as smart as we think.Using a variety of tests and observations in the wild, we illustrate how their IQ comes into play and scores on the charts.  p 
 p ‘Wildlife SOS’ is a documentary series that follows the work of the staff and volunteers at the Wildlife Aid Foundation – an organization dedicated to the rescue, care and rehabilitation of sick, injured, or orphaned animals.  p 
 p This series looks at some of the greatest wildlife events taking place on our planet throughout the course of the year. From Antarctica to Indonesia, compelling stories are captured in stunning high definition and put together to paint a colourful and exciting portrait of life on Planet Earth.  p 
 p A growing number of scientists see the beaver is a much overlooked tool when it comes to reversing the disastrous effects of global warming and saving the planet’s fresh water. The Beaver Whisperers reveals what makes beavers such brilliant hydro-engineers and explores how the much-maligned rodent is being recruited to accomplish everything from finding water in a bone-dry desert to controlling floods and coaxing life back into damaged lands.  p 
 p Cimex lectularius, wall louse, mahogany flat, crimson rambler, heavy dragoon, chinche bug, redcoat, bed bug. Call them what you like, these six legged bloodsuckers can really get under your skin – literally!Bite Me: The Bed Bug Invasion is a one-hour documentary that will burrow into the world of these miniature night crawlers and reveal the oversized impact they’re increasingly having on our daily lives.  p 
 p Get the latest nature news, views and videos delivered to your inbox.  p 
