 p OPEN 365 DAYS A YEAR &amp; FREE  p 
 p  a href=" location-directions" Location, Hours &amp; Directions  a   p 
 p OPEN 365 DAYS A YEAR &amp; FREE  p 
 p  a href=" location-directions" Location, Hours &amp; Directions  a   p 
 p class="flickr-album-heading"  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos lincolnparkzoo " title="View Flickr photostream." target="_blank" Random Flickr photos  a   from the album  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos lincolnparkzoo sets 72157644568258311" title="View set on Flickr." target="_blank" Eastern Black Rhinoceros  a  by  a href="https:  www.flickr.com people lincolnparkzoo " title="View user on Flickr." target="_blank" Lincoln Park Zoo  a    p 
 p Eastern black rhinoceroses stand up to 12 feet long and five feet high at the shoulder. They weigh up to 3,000 pounds. This species possess two horns made up of fibrous keratin. The forward is horn larger—up to 28 inches. Their coat color varies with soil color, since these animals wallow in the mud to stay cool. Rhino species do not differ much in color, and the popular names of black and white rhino probably arose from local soil covering the first specimens seen.  p 
 p Eastern Africa  p 
 p This species is listed as endangered and trade of its horn is prohibited by international law. The primary cause of population decline is hunting; rhino horn made into dagger handles is a symbol of wealth in many countries. Contrary to popular opinion, the horn is not consumed primarily as an aphrodisiac; only small amounts are used for this purpose. Lincoln Park Zoo participates in the Eastern Black Rhinoceros Species Survival Plan®, a shared conservation effort by zoos throughout the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.  p 
 p Eastern black rhinos inhabit transitional zones between grasslands and forests, generally in thick thorn bush or acacia scrub. However, they may also be found in more open country.  p 
 p As a herbivorous browser, the black rhino eats leafy plants as well as branches, shoots, thorny wood bushes and fruit. Rhino skin harbors many external parasites, which are eaten by tickbirds and egrets that live with the rhino. Young are preyed upon by hyenas. These solitary animals are more nocturnal than diurnal. Females are not territorial; their ranges vary according to food supply. Males are more aggressive in defending turf, but will tolerate properly submissive male intruders.  p 
 p Mating is non-seasonal, but births peak toward the end of the rainy season in drier habitats. Gestation is 15-16 months, after which single young are born weighing about 85 pounds. These calves are active soon after birth and can follow mother after about three days. Eastern black rhinos mature at five years.  p 
 p From black rhino hormones to snow leopard semen, amphibian skin swabs to hair-pulverizing machines, there’s no such thing as a typical day at the office for Rachel Santymire, Ph.D., director of Lincoln Park Zoo’s Davee Center for Endocrinology and Epidemiology.  p 
 p  a href=" article science-spotlight-rachel-santymire-phd" Learn About the Davee Center’s Achievements  a   p 
 p I’m Mark Kamhout, curator of mammals at Lincoln Park Zoo. Today’s Endangered Species Day seems like a natural time to reflect on the many threatened species of animals around the world.  p 
 p Most people look at a rhino horn and see one of nature’s most distinctive symbols. Unfortunately, others look at those same horns and see only a profit.  p 
 p The impact of illegal...  a href=" blog helping-rhinos-together%20" class="views-more-link" Read More  a   p 
 p Get the latest on upcoming events, new arrivals and more!  p 
 p All Content © Lincoln Park Zoo.  p 
 p class="desktopOnly" 
                                    2001 North Clark Street • Chicago, IL 60614 • 312-742-2000                                  p 
 p class="mobileOnly" 
                                                                         a href="https:  www.google.com maps place Lincoln+Park+Zoo" class="button map" Get Map Directions  a 
                                     a href="tel:312-742-2000" class="button call" Call 312-742-2000  a 
                                  p 
