 p class="text_fontSizeLarge" Green Heritage Fund Suriname (2005) builds a Xenarthra Center in Suriname to rehabilitate rescued sloths and anteaters, and to educate about the negative consequences of coastal swamp forest and mangrove forest destruction for animals AND humans. Previous campaigns provided us with funds for the initial stages of our construction plans, in all $40,000. Now we have found a suitable piece of land and are ready to get started, so please help us realize the construction of the complete center!  p 
 p The rehabilitation shelter not only requires animal care facilities for which we are already raising funds.    It also needs permanent residence facilities for our staff and volunteers helping with the daily care, plus an office for administration and research. And we wish to equip our center with educational posters, films and activating games to help raise awareness among visitors and school classes about the importance of protecting the natural coastal environment.  p 
 p Professionalizing the sloth and anteater rehabilitation at the Xenarthra Center has become urgent as our current urban shelter is small and devoid of the natural environment required for optimal rehabilitation. The chosen location is situated in coastal swamp forest which provides best rehabilitation chances. Permanent living and work space is needed as the animals require 24 7 attention depending on condition and age. An existing wooden structure with roof would be suitable as education center.  p 
 p The rehabilitation center will improve rehabilitation options of wildlife in Suriname. The educational center will serve as training location for youth groups and school classes. In the long term this will help establish a conservation and animal welfare ethic in Surinamese of all ages.  p 
 p  a href=" pfil 20480 projdoc.pdf" This project has provided additional documentation in a PDF file (projdoc.pdf).  a   p 
 p class="text_fontSizeSmall" Support this important cause by creating a personalized fundraising page.  p 
 p class="grid-12 text_7n" Sign up for the GlobalGiving Newsletter  p 
