 p class="show-for-medium" See the positive change our work is making around the world.  a class="learn-link white-space-nowrap" href=" impact"  span class="white-space-normal" Learn more  span   i class="icon-icon-navigation-mobile-arrow-right"   i   a   p 
 p class="show-for-medium" 
        There are many ways you can protect rainforests, fight climate change, and help people and wildlife thrive.
         a class="learn-link white-space-nowrap" href=" support#region-2"  span class="white-space-normal" Explore your giving options  span   i class="icon-icon-navigation-mobile-arrow-right"   i   a 
      p 
 p What Our Seal Means  p 
 p 
            The Rainforest Alliance Certified™ seal is awarded to farms, forests, and businesses that meet rigorous environmental and social standards.             a href=" faqs what-does-rainforest-alliance-certified-mean" Learn More  a   p 
 p This cat-sized mammal, typically weighing 8 - 9 pounds, has a round head, a short snout, small eyes, long legs, tiny ears and a stubby tail. Sloths have long, coarse fur that is light brown in color, but often appears green due to the blue-green algae that grow there. Instead of toes, their front and hind feet have three curved claws that allow them to easily hook onto tree branches and hang upside-down. Sloths can rotate their heads nearly 90 degrees, and their mouths are shaped so they look like they are always smiling. Males are distinguishable from females because they usually have a bright yellow or orange patch of fur located between their shoulders.  p 
 p The three-toed sloth is an arboreal animal, inhabiting the tropical forests of Central and South America. Their algae-covered fur helps camouflage the sloth in its forest environment. Sloths spend nearly all of their time in trees, descending to the ground only once a week to defecate.  p 
 p Sloths are herbivores (plant eaters), feeding on a low-energy diet of leaves, twigs and fruit. Because of their slow movement and metabolism, it can take up to a month for a sloth to digest a single meal.  p 
 p Three-toed sloth with baby  p 
 p Sloths are among the slowest-moving animals on Earth; they can swim but are virtually unable to walk. This makes them an easy target for jaguars, eagles and people that hunt sloths for their meat. The brown-throated three-toed sloth population is threatened by deforestation, habitat fragmentation, and human encroachment. In addition, their restricted diet prevents them from thriving in captivity.  p 
 p  a class="button" href="https:  secure3.convio.net ra site Donation2?df_id=6404&amp;6404.donation=form1" DONATE  a   p 
 p  span class="charity-byline" 
                         span class="percent"  82 percent   span 
                        of spending directly supports conservation programs.  a href=" audited-financial-documents" Learn More  a 
                      span   p 
