 p  strong Hey, there!  strong   p 
 p I’m Samir, and this is my mom. We’re sloth bears. Our home in the steep, rocky hills of southern India can be a dangerous place for a little bear. Good thing my mom lets me climb up on her back whenever I get scared. Let’s just say I spend a lot of time up here. Want to come along for the ride?  p 
 p  strong Little Bear, Big World  strong  br 
You know sloths—those sluggish, tree-dwelling animals from Central and South America. And you know bears. But you might not know sloth bears. (Sloth means “laziness.” Both sloths and sloth bears move pretty slowly—but we wouldn’t call them lazy!) These dark, shaggy bears live only in South Asia, in India and the countries around it. Scientists think there are fewer than 20,000 of them left in the wild. They are shy and hard to spot, so people are just now getting to know more about these unusual bears. At first glance, you might think a sloth bear looks like a regular black bear with longer fur.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Above  strong , little Samir bounds after his mom. He and Brother Sanjay will stay with Mama Bear for two years.  p 
 p But there are some pretty big differences between sloth bears and other bears. For one thing, sloth bears are the only bears that keep their babies on their backs most of the time. Even when the babies get bigger, they scramble up on their mamas’ furry backs every time they get scared—which can be pretty often!  p 
 p When they aren’t hanging out with Mom, Samir and Sanjay spend their time wrestling, playing, and exploring their rocky home ( strong circle  strong ). Sometimes that leads to run-ins with their neighbors, such as the peacock.( strong seen above  strong ) Ever heard of scaredy-bears?  p 
 p  strong Growing Up br 
  strong With a loud roar, Mama Bear ( strong above  strong ) fends off a male bear that has come too close to her cubs. The cubs are almost as big as Mom, but they still cower behind her at the first sign of danger. Sloth bears are built differently from the bears you are used to. They have longer, lankier bodies and longer, stronger claws—good for climbing trees, where they find fruit and honey or just hang out. Fruit and honey are nice snacks. But sloth bears are really made for eating insects. Like other bears, they have long, pointy canine teeth. But sloth bears have no top incisors— the front teeth that we use for biting into an apple. And they have long, flexible lips.  p 
 p With no front teeth to get in the way, this odd-looking mouth makes a perfect tool for sucking up ants and termites. The bears use their strong, sharp claws to break into termite mounds. Then they scarf up a meal with a noisy sluuurrp! So now you DO know sloth bears: the tree-climbing, insect-sucking, baby-toting bears of South Asia. And aren’t you glad you do?  p 
 p Samir is almost grown up. See him at above on the right, peeking over a rocky ledge? He has the big, floppy ears and long, pale snout of an adult sloth bear. And now, when he wants a better view, he can climb a tree (above) instead of his mom.  p 
 p So, who’s the real T. rex? Here’s what today’s scientists think.  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick the-real-t-rex " title="The Real T. rex" …  a   p 
 p They have big eyes and big mouths. They hop. They plop. They come in all shapes, sizes, and colors. Welcome to the wonderful world of frogs!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick wonderful-world-of-frogs " title="Wonderful World of Frogs" …  a   p 
 p Hey, fox fans. Want a peek inside my life as a mom to two cute, clever fox pups? Follow me on my InstagrAnimal feed!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick cape-foxes " title="Cape Foxes" …  a   p 
 p Coyotes live in almost every  town in the U.S. The more we learn about coyotes, the easier it will be to share our neighborhoods with them.  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick coyotes-in-the-city " title="Coyotes in the City" …  a   p 
 p The spots on this spotted salamander warn predators that the creature tastes really bad! Read on for more fast facts about spotted sallies.  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick spotted-salamanders " title="Spotted Salamanders" …  a   p 
 p It’s no surprise to see birds, bats, and bugs fly. But what’s this—a flying lizard?!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick glide-on " title="Glide On" …  a   p 
 p The  platypus is one of Australia’s favorite mammals. But one look at its duck-like bill gives a hint that it doesn’t play by all the mammal rules!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick peculiar-platypus " title="Peculiar Platypus" …  a   p 
 p The ocean animals you’ll meet here get along just fine even though they don’t have any teeth. For them, chowing down without chewing up is no problem at all!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick who-needs-teeth " title="Who Needs Teeth?" …  a   p 
 p Want to know how baby leopards grow up to be skilled, sneaky hunters? Come follow this little leopard’s tail!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick little-leopards-tail " title="Little Leopard’s Tail" …  a   p 
 p Fill your feeders to support your local feathered friends!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick winter-is-for-the-birds " title="Winter Is for the Birds" …  a   p 
 p Great pals? Or royal pains? Brothers and sisters can be both—in the animal world as well as in yours!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick brothers-and-sisters " title="Brothers and Sisters" …  a   p 
 p It has a weird name, a bubble body, and colorful tentacles. But what exactly is it?  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick man-of-war " title="Meet the Man-of-War" …  a   p 
 p Walruses are super at surviving in their cold, watery world.  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick walruses " title="Husky Tuskies" …  a   p 
 p High in treetops all around the world, billions and billions of tiny treehoppers are a-hoppin’. Yet many people don’t even know they exist.  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick treehoppers " title="Treehoppers" …  a   p 
 p Celebrate winter with these 40 cool facts about the coldest time of year and 10 activities to enjoy in the brrrr-isk outdoors!  a class="mh-excerpt-more" href="https:  rangerrick.org ranger_rick chill-out " title="Chill Out!" …  a   p 
 p You must belong to the Ranger Rick Web Club to view this page now.  a href="#" class="pigeon-open" Click here to sign in or join the Web Club  a .  p 
 p  em Uniting all Americans to ensure wildlife thrive in a rapidly changing world  em   p 
 p PO Box 1583, Merrifield, VA 22116-1583  p 
 p 800.611.1599  p 
 p class="x-small" National Wildlife Federation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization  p 
