 p Volunteer in Costa Rica’s Pacific area which is home to a wide array of wildlife including sloths, monkeys, turtles, iguana and other marsupials. Join us today and be part of a community led mammal monitoring and conservation project.  p 
 p Animals are often illegally hunted for food or income. Some are killed by urban and agricultural expansion.Expansion of local towns and developments have also directly reduced the populations of many species. The local population often lacks knowledge about the importance of these species, as well as how to mitigate risks to them and the entire surrounding forest system.  p 
 p Sloth behavior remains particularly elusive especially with regards to how they fare after rescue centers release them into the wild. Research on them, anteaters, raccoons, other mammals and more about sea turtle nesting behavior is needed in the area.  p 
 p Environmental education activities provide local youth opportunities to participate in conservation. It also gives them the opportunity to learn English which can be help them pursue careers in ecotourism. Volunteers are involved in night walks and helping with the turtle hatchery. The Monitoring Center provides a unique way for locals and international volunteers to get involved in the conservational efforts in this province.  p 
 p  strong Objectives and volunteer role  strong   p 
 p  strong DURING YOUR FREE TIME:  strong  Volunteers are free to visit and see places or do shopping during their free time. Explore local markets or travel to the beaches which can be visited on the weekends. The country offers unparalleled natural beauty, active volcanoes, rainforests, and a wide range of national parks and eco-tourism. In addition, optional Spanish lessons or dance classes can be arranged locally.  p 
 p    p 
 p itemprop="description" 
I was surprised by how many sloth I actually saw and how much I was able to do. Because I stayed for so long I was able to become a group leader. And volunteers are from all over the World so you get to know other realities. I recommend this program to anyone that love animals.
  p 
 p itemprop="author" Devon  p 
 p Nationality: USA  p 
 p Age: 18  p 
 p itemprop="description" 
This was the best experience of my life. The ABV team was really helpful both in the USA and in-country. I was very prepared for the trip. It was really easy to get settled and used to the new surroundings. There was never a time that I felt uncomfortable or unclear on travel instructions or anything. Definitely going to go back some day!
  p 
 p itemprop="author" Jennifer  p 
 p Nationality: Canada  p 
 p Age: 19  p 
 p itemprop="description" 
This was my first time ever traveling out of my home country. I truly loved visiting Costa Rica – it has the most natural beauty of any place I have ever been, and people dedication to conservation and eco-awareness are inspiring. I definitely want to see more of Costa Rica and other countries now.
  p 
 p itemprop="author" Lauren  p 
 p Nationality: UK  p 
 p Age: 20  p 
 p  strong Day One:  strong  Our local coordinator staff will give you an orientation and will accompany you to your program. You will be shown how to manage the commute (bus, taxi, walking). You will be introduced to the site director and discuss your role at the project. Volunteers typically work a morning and an afternoon shift each lasting about 3-5 hours.  p 
 p  strong Weekdays: A typical volunteer day is as follows:  strong   p 
 p  strong Note:  strong  This is an example schedule. Volunteer work hours can vary depending on the program and the location.  p 
 p  strong Evenings:  strong  For peace of mind and to ensure the well-being of our volunteers, a nightly curfew of 21:30PM is in place from Sunday to Thursday. Curfew is set at 12:00AM for Friday and Saturday. (All volunteers must comply with their home country’s legal drinking age).  p 
 p Volunteers have several ways to stay in touch with their family friends back home and with the ABV local staff while they are overseas. All city urban program locations have access to internet cyber cafes which typically charge hourly rates ($1-$2). The majority of ABV guesthouses, homestays have WIFI access (fees apply), and have land line telephone numbers. Even rural program locations have mobile phone service, and small towns nearby with internet facilities. All ABV staff use mobile phones to stay in contact with their volunteers.  p 
 p Before traveling volunteers should contact their mobile phone provider and ask about international call texting plans. Volunteers should consider buying a portable wifi device (especially in rural locations). If planning on traveling with your own mobile phone volunteers should look at apps like Skype, FaceTime and WhatsApp to stay connected through messenger or short calls home. Volunteers can rent a wireless phone or buy a cheap throwaway phone once they arrive in-country. In some locations you can do that for less than $50. In fact, your regular carrier may even offer overseas rentals. ABV local staff will assist you and show you where to purchase SIM cards.  p 
 p Once you arrive in-country and settled in, our ABV staff will help you contact home to let someone know you arrived safely. All volunteers are also given an emergency phone number on their Volunteer Guide summary, which is available 24 7 to contact ABV staff.  p 
 p Easy. Choose the dates that work best for you. Although some programs have date restrictions the majority of our volunteer programs are available year round. Volunteers select their own program start date and complete an online application. Once you have been accepted and dates approved, ABV will ask you to confirm your registration by paying a us$120 included in the overall fee.  p 
 p The safety of our volunteers is paramount for  strong A Broader View Volunteers  strong . The majority of ABV Volunteers travel and serve without major incident. However, programs are based in some of the least developed countries and in some of the most remote areas in the world,  strong health, safety, and security risks  strong  are an unavoidable part of life and international service. To address these concerns and to safeguard the well-being of our program participants, A Broader View has safety protocols and security procedures for all programs:  p 
 p Every staff member of A Broader View is committed to providing volunteers with the support they need to successfully meet the challenges they will face to have a safe, healthy, and productive service. The success of each ABV volunteer is our prime goal. We rely on volunteers to exercise personal responsibility and demonstrate both a keen awareness of the world around them and a willingness to adjust their behavior in a manner that will enhance their safety and well-being. In the end, your efforts will be rewarded with an incredible, unique experience.  p 
 p  strong The emergency lines are staffed by an A Broader View:  strong   p 
 p A Broader View Volunteers work tirelessly year round to support our volunteers, and also to serve the local communities where ABV projects are based. As a tax-exempt 501 c(3) organization A Broader View receive 100% of our funding from volunteer contributions. Through your program fee contribution our non-profit charity organization can operate beneficial humanitarian aid programs which are successful and continuous supported year round.  p 
 p Local, professional full-time coordinators, placement logistics, airport pick up and departure transportation, arrival orientation, food &amp; local accommodations, are a major part of providing a safe, meaningful volunteer experience. When you join A Broader View, you will receive pre-trip visa and vaccination support, assistance with flights, fundraising planning, through our interactive online volunteer portal. Our local partners not only benefit from volunteers valuable contributions at the project, they benefit financially with year-round monetary support from A Broader View. In the last decade  a href=" about-us accomplishments" A Broader View has donated over 3.5 million dollars in international aid  a .  p 
 p By joining A Broader View you are not only helping to make a difference during your own trip, your impact will last even after you go home.  p 
 p Fluency in Spanish is not a requirement for the ABV volunteer programs, however on certain programs, volunteer work will be restricted with limited language ability. We recommend that volunteers take advantage of the very affordable language lessons offered exclusively to ABV volunteers by our ​local team in country. Past volunteers feel that taking these lessons help immensely with day-to-day volunteer work and communicating with local people.  a href="https:  www.abroaderview.org programs language-immersion" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" language lesson...read more.  a   p 
 p Volunteers interested in taking Spanish lessons can arrange these directly with the local ​coordinator once in country or when applying online. Please note that Spanish lessons are no​t​ available to volunteers in some very specific locations.  a href="https:  www.abroaderview.org cost-and-fees" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" (Lessons fees)  a   p 
 p We also recommend to learn some basic spanish prior traveling and or download the itranslate apps for your phone.  p 
 p Our staff has extensive travel and volunteer abroad experience. We have the answers to all your questions about volunteering with ABV. We can customize any of our programs to your needs and dates.  p 
 p  strong Call chat with on our our team members:  strong   p 
 p © A Broader View Volunteers Corp  p 
 p  strong  strong volunteers[at]abroaderview.org  strong   strong   p 
 p id="immersionParrafo"  b Language Immersion  b : br   input checked id="calc-immersion-no" name="calc-immersion-radio" onclick="if (!window.__cfRLUnblockHandlers) return false; getCalculatorListener(this);" type="radio" value="No" data-cf-modified-57214eeb0932bde0907ade65-=""  No  input id="calc-immersion-yes" name="calc-immersion-radio" onclick="if (!window.__cfRLUnblockHandlers) return false; getCalculatorListener(this);" style="display:none;" type="radio" value="Yes" data-cf-modified-57214eeb0932bde0907ade65-=""   span id="calc-immersion-yes-legend" name="calc-immersion-yes" style="display:none;"  Yes  span   p 
 p id="immersionHelpMessage" style="display:none;" Our Immersion program will give you the opportunity to gain, advance or expand your Spanish knowledge, while participating in our volunteer programs.  p 
