 p Co-Founder and Director, Leslie grew up in Costa Rica. Her father was one of the first property developers on the Pacific coast, laying the foundation for ecotourism in the Nosara region. Many years later, back in the United States and working as an Occupational Therapist and Outdoor Adventure Ropes course entrepreneur, with her own growing collection of birds she traveled to the jungles of Peru to study wild macaws. This led her back to her roots in Costa Rica in pursuing her lifelong dream of operating a bird refuge center, for parrots and toucans. Later, the bed and breakfast was started as a guesthouse when friends stayed while visiting. Today, Leslie’s vision for a breeding and refuge for toucans has quickly grown into a fully functioning wildlife rescue center. Her care goes beyond toucans and now heals sloths, otters, owls, spider monkeys and much more!  p 
 p class="" Co-Founder and Director, Leslie grew up in Costa Rica. Her father was one of the first property developers on the Pacific coast, laying the foundation for ecotourism in the Nosara region. Many years later, back in the United States and working as an Occupational Therapist and Outdoor Adventure Ropes course entrepreneur, with her own growing collection of birds she traveled to the jungles of Peru to study wild macaws. This led her back to her roots in Costa Rica in pursuing her lifelong dream of operating a bird refuge center, for parrots and toucans. Later, the bed and breakfast was started as a guesthouse when friends stayed while visiting. Today, Leslie’s vision for a breeding and refuge for toucans has quickly grown into a fully functioning wildlife rescue center. Her care goes beyond toucans and now heals sloths, otters, owls, spider monkeys and much more!  p 
 p Co-Founder and native of Costa Rica, Jorge lived and worked in Texas, USA in a successful career with Continental Airlines. He was drawn back home after seeking land to start his own farm. While still working for Continental Airlines he met Leslie Howle. Later, Jorge and Leslie married where they founded the Toucan Rescue Ranch in 2004. After several years caring for solely birds he convinced Leslie to rescue the Ranch’s first sloth. That sloth grew up to be Millie and is what initially transformed the Ranch into a full wildlife rehabilitation center. Today, Jorge assists in providing enrichment for the various species under his and Leslie’s care and is even a licensed realtor.   p 
 p class="" Co-Founder and native of Costa Rica, Jorge lived and worked in Texas, USA in a successful career with Continental Airlines. He was drawn back home after seeking land to start his own farm. While still working for Continental Airlines he met Leslie Howle. Later, Jorge and Leslie married where they founded the Toucan Rescue Ranch in 2004. After several years caring for solely birds he convinced Leslie to rescue the Ranch’s first sloth. That sloth grew up to be Millie and is what initially transformed the Ranch into a full wildlife rehabilitation center. Today, Jorge assists in providing enrichment for the various species under his and Leslie’s care and is even a licensed realtor.   p 
 p Janet is the Ranch’s onsite veterinarian. She obtained her DMV from Escuela de Medicina y Cirugía Veterinaria San Francisco de Asís in 2006. During her studies, she worked with Aviarios Sloth Sanctuary 2005-2006 and interned with the Dallas World Aquarium December 2006 (exotics). Janet interned with the Wimberley Veterinary Clinic in Texas in 2007. She opened her private veterinary clinic in Curridabat, San José in 2008, and became a consultant to the zoo in Playa Bonita, Moín, Limón (Paradero Ecotour) in 2008. At the Ranch she conducts examinations, medical logs, procedures and surgeries. She oversees the overall health of all of the animals in the Ranch’s clinic and property. Her role as a veterinarian has evolved into more management tasks since obtaining her MBA.  p 
 p class="" Janet is the Ranch’s onsite veterinarian. She obtained her DMV from Escuela de Medicina y Cirugía Veterinaria San Francisco de Asís in 2006. During her studies, she worked with Aviarios Sloth Sanctuary 2005-2006 and interned with the Dallas World Aquarium December 2006 (exotics). Janet interned with the Wimberley Veterinary Clinic in Texas in 2007. She opened her private veterinary clinic in Curridabat, San José in 2008, and became a consultant to the zoo in Playa Bonita, Moín, Limón (Paradero Ecotour) in 2008. At the Ranch she conducts examinations, medical logs, procedures and surgeries. She oversees the overall health of all of the animals in the Ranch’s clinic and property. Her role as a veterinarian has evolved into more management tasks since obtaining her MBA.  p 
 p Carol has worked and volunteered all over the world including countries such as Malawi and Philippines. Carol came every Saturday for a few years helping the Toucan Rescue Ranch prepare the various diets for the rescued wildlife of TRR. Since her earlier years at the Ranch her position has evolved into an administrative role. Now she works at the Ranch part-time as the Business Administrator managing financials, assisting with technical work and conducting tours.  p 
 p class="" Carol has worked and volunteered all over the world including countries such as Malawi and Philippines. Carol came every Saturday for a few years helping the Toucan Rescue Ranch prepare the various diets for the rescued wildlife of TRR. Since her earlier years at the Ranch her position has evolved into an administrative role. Now she works at the Ranch part-time as the Business Administrator managing financials, assisting with technical work and conducting tours.  p 
 p Ana María Villada Rosales is the Ranch’s resident and traveling Veterinarian. She graduated from Vet school from the Universidad de Guadalajara, Mexico and has a Master’s in Conservation Medicine from Murdoch University, Australia. She has worked at zoological collections in Mexico and rescue centers in Australia working mainly with wildlife since graduating University. She oversees the clinic and overall treatments of injured animals, also oversees the caretaking of the sloths and their advancements  within the sloth release program. When needed she travels between the Toucan Rescue Ranch’s Release Sites and headquarters for treatments and preventive medicine for the animals.  p 
 p Ana María Villada Rosales is the Ranch’s resident and traveling Veterinarian. She graduated from Vet school from the Universidad de Guadalajara, Mexico and has a Master’s in Conservation Medicine from Murdoch University, Australia. She has worked at zoological collections in Mexico and rescue centers in Australia working mainly with wildlife since graduating University. She oversees the clinic and overall treatments of injured animals, also oversees the caretaking of the sloths and their advancements  within the sloth release program. When needed she travels between the Toucan Rescue Ranch’s Release Sites and headquarters for treatments and preventive medicine for the animals.  p 
 p Zara Palmer is the Marketing Specialist at the Toucan Rescue Ranch. She was born and raised in Clark Fork, Idaho, USA. Zara graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in business administration and marketing from Lewis-Clark State College in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho. Her fondness of toucans and the rainforest brought her to the Toucan Rescue Ranch. She began helping TRR in 2013. Since then, her role has grown and she now manages the Adoption Program, social media, crowdfunding, the website, special events, and so on.   p 
 p class="" Zara Palmer is the Marketing Specialist at the Toucan Rescue Ranch. She is from a small town called Clark Fork, Idaho, USA. Zara graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in business administration and marketing from Lewis-Clark State College in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho. She has been helping with the Ranch since 2013 with crowdfunding campaigns where she’s helped build new enclosures for various animals at headquarters and the Release Site. Since 2015 she’s lived in Costa Rica on and off and is responsible for the Adoption Program, social media, corporate sponsorships, volunteer activities, crowdfunding, community events, and overall marketing and brand awareness. Zara assists with administrative tasks, helps with tours, and you can even find her cutting papaya with the volunteers.   p 
 p Ivette oversees daily operations in the outdoor animal kitchen where she advises volunteers and interns on animals diets, food preparation, and general care. She is the reason we are able to keep hundreds of animal resident and patient animals happy and healthy. Ivette has proven to be a crucial role at TRR. She works effortlessly with experienced and inexperienced volunteers and is a working component to the success of the Toucan Rescue Ranch!  p 
 p Ivette Sirias has lived in San Isidro, Costa Rica for 25 years. Her first job was at a company that offered laundry services, 9 years later she became the administrator of the business until she got very sick and had to quit her job. After 4 years of recuperation, she started searching for a job, but didn’t want to work at stressful place that would affect her health. A friend told her about an open position at the Toucan Rescue Ranch and since Ivette has always loved animals, she applied. The day after the interview she was hired! Ivette has a very special place in TRR’s heart due to her charm and dedication. Ivette tells everyone that this job is like her therapy, she recovered her health. She loves working with animals and feels good about doing something useful and meaningful.  p 
 p Ivette oversees daily operations in the outdoor animal kitchen where she advises volunteers and interns on animals diets, food preparation, and general care. She is the reason we are able to keep hundreds of animal resident and patient animals happy and healthy. Ivette has proven to be a crucial role at TRR. She works effortlessly with experienced and inexperienced volunteers and is a working component to the success of the Toucan Rescue Ranch!  p 
 p Storm was born in England but grew up in New Zealand where she studied Biology at Victoria University of Wellington and Animal Management at WelTec. She has a special interest in ornithology and is currently furthering her studies in Zoo Biology and Conservation at the University of Salford in the U.K. During her service at the Toucan Rescue Ranch she served as an Animal Specialist assisting with the clinic, animal welfare and husbandry as well as the Release and Education Program. Since enrolling in University she assists with virtual responsibilities such as product design, sales, web and graphic design.  p 
 p class="" Storm was born in England but grew up in New Zealand where she studied Biology at Victoria University of Wellington and Animal Management at WelTec. She has a special interest in ornithology and is currently furthering her studies in Zoo Biology and Conservation at the University of Salford in the U.K. During her service at the Toucan Rescue Ranch she served as an Animal Specialist assisting with the clinic, animal welfare and husbandry as well as the Release and Education Program. Since enrolling in University she assists with virtual responsibilities such as product design, sales, web and graphic design.  p 
 p María is the General Manager and Human Resources at the Toucan Rescue Ranch. She was born in Colombia and moved to Costa Rica as a teenager. María has always loved traveling and being surrounded by nature, she studied Hotel Management and Tourism at Universidad Latina de Costa Rica in 2009. After spending some time living and working at Melbourne, Australia, she decided to come back to Costa Rica to continue her studies, she obtains her International MBA at Universidad Europea de Madrid and started to work on different hotels, restaurants and at the Universidad Latina as a Revenue Management Professor. Her role is to manage the daily work, staff and volunteers at TRR and Administrative tasks.  p 
 p María is the General Manager and Human Resources at the Toucan Rescue Ranch. She was born in Colombia and moved to Costa Rica as a teenager. María has always loved traveling and being surrounded by nature, she studied Hotel Management and Tourism at Universidad Latina de Costa Rica in 2009. After spending some time living and working at Melbourne, Australia, she decided to come back to Costa Rica to continue her studies, she obtains her International MBA at Universidad Europea de Madrid and started to work on different hotels, restaurants and at the Universidad Latina as a Revenue Management Professor. Her role is to manage the daily work, staff and volunteers at TRR and Administrative tasks. She is a vital component to the operations of TRR.   p 
 p Daniel Quintanilla Mendoza is the Lead Tour Guide in the Toucan Rescue Ranch. He is a biologist focused on conservation and graduated from the Universidad Latina in Costa Rica. Daniel has been volunteering at TRR for almost 3 years and now as a staff member. His passion for the wildlife in Costa Rica and conservation has lead him to many volunteer programs in the country; including working with sea turtles in the Pacific and with high school students helping them in conservation and biology projects. Now he plans to travel the world spreading the word of conservation and helping other rescue centers.   p 
 p Daniel Quintanilla Mendoza is the Lead Tour Guide in the Toucan Rescue Ranch. He is a biologist focused on conservation and graduated from the Universidad Latina in Costa Rica. Daniel has been volunteering at TRR for almost 3 years and now as a staff member. His passion for the wildlife in Costa Rica and conservation has lead him to many volunteer programs in the country; including working with sea turtles in the Pacific and with high school students helping them in conservation and biology projects. Now he plans to travel the world spreading the word of conservation and helping other rescue centers.  p 
 p Javier Tenorio is the Toucan Rescue Ranch’s Biologist and educational guide. He graduated from Escuela de Ciencias Ambientales from Universidad Nacional de Costa Rica as Tropical Biologist and Natural Resource Manager, he has specialized in ornithology and animal behavior. He has worked all over Costa Rica in biological research. He is a passionate conservationist and environmental educator. He oversees the enrichment program and the animal welfare with the animal husbandry team. Javier also is a crucial component of the Education Program as one of TRRs educators teaching about conservation and wildlife in educational walks to the general public.  p 
 p Javier Tenorio is the Toucan Rescue Ranch’s Biologist and educational guide. He graduated from Escuela de Ciencias Ambientales from Universidad Nacional de Costa Rica as Tropical Biologist and Natural Resource Manager, he has specialized in ornithology and animal behavior. He has worked all over Costa Rica in biological research. He is a passionate conservationist and environmental educator. He oversees the enrichment program and the animal welfare with the animal husbandry team. Javier also is a crucial component of the Education Program as one of TRRs educators teaching about conservation and wildlife in educational walks to the general public.  p 
 p Don Hector Ramirez was born and raised in Costa Rica. He grew up in San Josecito, Heredia where he developed a passion for agriculture and plants. In his own and other family gardens, he helped plant flowers. Jorge, Co-Founder, was looking for a person who could help with landscaping at TRR, and Don Hector was the perfect fit. He started at TRR several years ago helping clear and manage the yards, but then quickly moved to planting gardens and new plant life at TRR. He focuses on bringing native wildlife to the property by planting nectar rich plants and other plant life that encourages beautiful birds and insects all over Toucan Rescue Ranch. If you’ve visited and marveled at the beautiful landscaping, you can thank Don Hector for that!   p 
 p Don Hector Ramirez was born and raised in Costa Rica. He grew up in San Josecito, Heredia where he developed a passion for agriculture and plants. In his own and other family gardens, he helped plant flowers. Jorge, Co-Founder, was looking for a person who could help with landscaping at TRR, and Don Hector was the perfect fit. He started at TRR several years ago helping clear and manage the yards, but then quickly moved to planting gardens and new plant life at TRR. He focuses on bringing native wildlife to the property by planting nectar rich plants and other plant life that encourages beautiful birds and insects all over Toucan Rescue Ranch. If you’ve visited and marveled at the beautiful landscaping, you can thank Don Hector for that!   p 
 p  strong Costa Rican Foundation   strong   p 
 p  strong Costa Rican Foundation: 300667701803  strong   p 
 p  strong U.S. 501c3 Nonprofit Board Members:   strong   p 
 p  strong Company Officers:  strong  Leslie Howle: Chair; Terrie Velasquez: Secretary; Vacant: Treasurer  p 
 p The Toucan Rescue Ranch is a licensed Costa Rican wildlife rescue facility.  A Costa Rican Foundation (#300667701803) and a 501(c)3 charitable organization in the United States (EIN: 80-0516453)  p 
 p A wildlife rescue foundation based in Costa Rica br 
 a href="mailto:info@toucanrescueranch.org?Subject=Query" target="_top" info@toucanrescueranch.org  a   p 
 p  span id="siteseal"   span 
   All Rights Reserved   p 
