 p Amazonian animals are being torn from the wild so tourists can take selfies for Instagram and other social media. With your support, we're working to break this cycle of cruelty.  p 
 p  strong Read the report, ' a href="https:  d31j74p4lpxrfp.cloudfront.net sites default files ca_-_en_files amazon_selfies_report_-_canada.pdf" target="_blank" A Close up on cruelty: The harmful impact of wildlife selfies in the Amazon  a '.  strong   p 
 p The Amazon rainforest is famous for its diverse wildlife. And the number of tourists who want to take selfies with its fascinating animals is rising fast.   p 
 p Sadly, this has led to the exploitation of sloths, caimans, pink river dolphins, anacondas, and many more animals, who belong in the wild. With their gentle, slow nature, and facial markings that give the impression they’re always smiling, sloths have become one of the main targets for people looking to use them for profit.   p 
 p Many people offering wildlife selfies in the Amazon search treetops for sloths to steal. These typically calm, gentle animals are snatched from their natural habitats, forced to live in noisy, chaotic environments, and repeatedly passed around from tourist to tourist.  p 
 p  strong  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.ca close-up-on-cruelty" target="_blank" Learn more about our investigation and what we uncovered &gt;  a   strong   p 
 p    p 
 p Whether it’s posing for a photograph with a wild animal, visiting live shows that force wild animals to perform or taking part in activities that involve riding wild animals, increasing demand from people on holiday means these animals will continue to suffer for entertainment.  p 
 p By working together, we can help end the suffering of wild animals in the name of tourist entertainment for good.  p 
 p Pledge your support to be an animal-friendly tourist when you travel. You can protect these animals by reducing the demand for wild animals in entertainment in the countries where you are on holiday.  p 
 p As a thank you for taking our pledge, we'll send you a link to download our animal-friendly pocket travel guide.  p 
 p Most tourists who take photos with wildlife love animals. During once-in-a-lifetime trips to destinations like the Amazon, it’s understandable they’d want to take a snap with a sloth for Facebook, or post a picture with a pink river dolphin on Instagram.  p 
 p But if they knew about the suffering these animals endure for this type of photo opportunity, they’d put their phones and cameras away.    p 
 p Amongst the  strong 34 billion images  strong  posted by  strong 800 million people  strong  on Instagram, our initial investigation shows there are tens of thousands of selfies on Instagram taken with wild animals. These photos capture a moment of shareable joy for people, but for many of them, the animals’ stress and suffering is left out of the frame.  p 
 p Many people envy friends who post selfies of themselves hugging or holding wild animals, which sadly encourages more people are to take their own photos. This continues the ongoing suffering and cruelty for wildlife.  p 
 p Our Wildlife Selfie Code campaign has successfully influenced one of the biggest social media sites to educate its users about how posting and sharing pictures with wild animals may be supporting animal cruelty behind the scenes.  p 
 p Over 250,000 of you signed up to our Wildlife Selfie Code. Thanks to your incredible support, Instagram has launched a new 'content advisory page' to educate users about the cruelty behind willdlife selfies.  a href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.ca news together-we-moved-instagram-to-help-end-cruel-wildlife-selfies" style="font-size: inherit;" target="_blank"  strong Read more about this great news.  strong   a   p 
 p Our report on wildlife selfies in the Amazon is part of our global campaign to stamp out cruel wildlife entertainment everywhere.  p 
 p Around the world, over 500,000 wild animals are trapped, confined and forced to live and behave unnaturally to entertain tourists.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.worldanimalprotection.ca wildlife-not-entertainers" target="_blank"  strong Learn about our global campaign to end cruel wildlife entertainment &gt;   strong   a   p 
