 p There’s no denying that sloths are cute as hell.  p 
 p class="access-hidden access-skip-notice" FireFox NVDA users - To access the following content, press 'M' to enter the iFrame.   p 
 p But when it comes to holding them, taking a photo with them in captivity, and uploading it to your Instagram?  p 
 p It’s not worth the likes, according to World Animal Protection, whose report earlier this year estimated that sloths taken from the wild for tourism and photo opps "may not survive longer than six months."   p 
 p The report also found that there’s been an almost 300 per cent increase of photos on Instagram of tourists handling sloths since 2014.  p 
 p Today, Instagram is acknowledging the problem: a new feature in the app now alerts users to the harm associated with animals being used for "wildlife selfies".   p 
 p If you search terms like #slothselfie, #koalaselfie or #monkeyselfie on Instagram, you’ll now get this alert:   p 
 p The alert directs users  a class="external" href="https:  help.instagram.com 859615207549041" target="_blank" title="" here  a , where Instagram says, "It's easy to get caught up in the moment when you're surrounded by nature's beauty, but risking damage to the environment—whether it's walking on wildflowers, moving a nest or carving initials—is never worth a few likes."  p 
 p World Animal Protection worked with Instagram on the initiative and welcomed the move.   p 
 p "We congratulate Instagram on taking this important step towards educating its users about wild animals that are suffering for selfies," Steve McIvor, CEO at World Animal Protecteion, said in a statement, "The reality is these wild animals are suffering terribly, both in front of and behind the camera."  p 
 p "Wild animals are being taken from their mothers as babies and secretly kept in filthy, cramped conditions or repeatedly baited with food causing severe psychological trauma just so tourists can get photo."  p 
 p Today’s news comes a few months after Tinder also took a stand on animal cruelty.   p 
 p In August  a class="external" href="https:  www.abc.net.au triplej programs hack no-tiger-selfies 8775016" target="_blank" title="" the dating app called for users  a  to stop uploading and remove photos of themselves with tigers in captivity. They said, "Posing next to the king of the jungle doesn’t make you one."  p 
 p Source:  a class="external" href="https:  www.worldanimalprotection.org wildlife-selfie-code" target="_blank" title="" World Animal Protection  a   p 
 p    p 
 p Frances Kearey, spokesperson for World Animal Protection, said the recent moves were a step in the right direction.   p 
 p "Today’s announcement from Instagram and Tinder’s introduction of a tiger selfie policy earlier this year can be viewed as a shift in acceptability of wildlife selfies," Frances told  em Hack  em , "We will continue to approach and work with digital platforms to promote cruelty free wildlife photos."  p 
 p A search term like #Monkeyselfie currently has over 10,000 posts on Instagram. Frances says she hopes the campaign will raise awareness about the issue and ebb the flow of wildlife selfie posts.   p 
 p "Our aim is to redo the research once the selfie warning on Instagram has been in place for a measurable period to understand the impact it has had on attitude to wildlife selfies."  p 
 p Hack talks about the stuff that matters to young Australians. In your feed 24 7, on your radio 5:30pm weekdays.  p 
 p  a class="external" href="https:  itunes.apple.com au podcast hack id78995043?mt=2" target="_blank" title="Hack on iTunes" Hack on iTunes  a   p 
 p To contact us during the show -  p 
 p  strong Call 1300 0555 36  strong   br (Local and mobile call costs)  p 
 p  strong SMS 0439 75 7555  strong   br (Usual SMS costs apply)  p 
 p If you've got a tip off, a lead for a good story or a crackin' idea -  p 
