 p align="center" class="style4"  a href="MacComoZooProject.html" MAC COMO ZOO  a   p 
 p align="center" class="style4"    p 
 p class="style6"  strong Hoffman's Two-Toed Sloth   strong   p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5"  img src="TwoToedSloth.jpg" alt="two-toed sloth pic" width="400" height="300" hspace="10" vspace="10" align="left"  br 
Scientific Name:  span  em Choloepus hoffmanni  em   p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5" Kingdom:  span  Animalia  p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5" Phylum:  span  Chordata  p 
 p class="style9"  strong  span class="style5" Class:   span   strong  Mammalia   p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5" Order:  span Xenarthra  p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5" Family:  span Megalonychidae  p 
 p class="style9"  span class="style5" Distribution:   span Hoffman’s two-toed sloth is found in South and Central American countries including: Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela. They are most prevalent in the Amazon Rainforest Basin of central Brazil and Peru.  p 
 p class="style1"  span class="style5" Habitat:   span Almost entirely arboreal (tree-dwelling) creatures, two-toed sloths live high in the forest canopy of tropical rainforests. They can be found resting in the crowns of trees or the lianas (woody climbing vines) that are interwoven throughout the canopy treetops. Although nearly all of their normal activity occurs hanging upside down, two-toed sloths will descend to the ground for urination and defecation, or to change trees to find a new food source.  p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Description:   span Hoffman’s two-toed sloths range in body length from 21 to 29 inches, and range in weight from 9 to 20 pounds. They get their name from having two large claws on their forelimbs that can measure up to 3 inches in length. Two-toed sloths also have the lowest and most variable body temperature and the lowest muscle mass relative to overall body weight of any mammal. Their fur is brown in color, ranging from light tan to dark brown, with lighter fur around their face and head. Their average lifespan is 10-12 years in the wild, but they can live up to 31 years in captivity.  p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Diet:   span The Hoffman’s two-toed sloth is mainly an herbivore that eats mostly leaves, but can also consume animal matter such as bird eggs, nestlings, lizards, and insects. At the Como Zoo, the sloths are on a diet consisting of lettuce and carrots. The sloths have large, multi-chambered stomachs similar to a cow’s that are tolerant of the toxic chemicals contained in the foliage that they eat. Having an extremely slow metabolism, Hoffman’s two-toed sloths can take up to a week to digest a meal; they only need to descend from the trees once every 5-7 days to urinate and defecate.    p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Behavior:   span Sloths are unique animals that spend nearly all their time upside down hanging in a tree; they even eat, sleep and give birth upside down! They spend so much time upside down that their internal organs have actually been repositioned over time. They are known for their speed, or lack there off, because they only move between 6 to 8 feet a minute. They may look clumsy, but are surprisingly good swimmers. The ability to swim is very helpful for crossing streams or even rivers that are common in their wet habitat. On land they are not as agile. In fact, their limbs are not strong enough to support them and they have to drag themselves on their bellies to get around. Sloths live most of their lives in solitary, only meeting up to mate. Females have been known to congregate in small groups, but males are almost always found alone.  Sloths are usually not territorial, but they can be if their young is threatened.  p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Breeding:   span Female two-toed sloths reach sexual maturity when they are around 3 years old. It takes a little longer for the males, who generally reach sexual maturity around 4 or 5 years of age. Sloths give birth to one child at a time. Their gestation period (the time between fertilization and birth) tends to be between 7-10 months. The relatively long gestation period allows the young to be fairly developed when they are born. Once the baby is born the mother’s work isn’t finished. The baby sloth clings to its mother’s fur for the next 6-9 months, after which the baby sloth ventures off on its own. The babies don’t go too far, and keep a tight association with their mother’s until they are around the age of 2. The average time between pregnancies is between 14-16 months. The sloths have no defined mating season, and mating seems to occur at random times.  p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Adaptations:   span Although sloths are mammals, they are heterothermic. This means that they have a very low variable body temperature that greatly depends on the environment. Their body temperature ranges from 86-930 F, which is cold compared to most mammalian standards. By keeping their body temperature low, they are able to conserve energy that would otherwise be used to maintain a higher body temperature.  p 
 p class="style8" The sloths also conserve energy by having incredibly low muscle mass. Only 25% of a sloth’s body is made of muscle, which is especially interesting when compared to other mammals that have twice that amount.   p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Conservation:   span Sloths are not on the endangered species list. However, their habitat is quickly being destroyed, leaving them homeless and vulnerable to a decrease in their population size.  p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Miscellaneous:  span   p 
 p Populations are not split 50:50 between females and males. The ratio is actually around 11:1 females to males.   p 
 p Sloths have many predators, including anacondas, harpy eagles, jaguars and ocelots.   p 
 p class="style8"    p 
 p class="style7" CLICK TO DOWNLOAD  a href="TT_Sloth.AVI" SCRATCHING TWO-TOED SLOTH  a   p 
 p class="style7" MORE ON THE  a href="TwoToedSlothExtra.html" EVOLUTIONARY HISTORY OF HOFFMAN'S TWO-TOED SLOTH  a   p 
 p class="style8"  span class="style5" Sources:  span   p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  animaldiversity.ummz.umich.edu site accounts information Choloepus_hoffmanni.html" http:  animaldiversity.ummz.umich.edu site accounts information Choloepus_hoffmanni.html  a    p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals two-toed-sloth.html" http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals two-toed-sloth.html  a    p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  bristolzoo.org.uk learning animals mammals two-toed-sloth" http:  bristolzoo.org.uk learning animals mammals two-toed-sloth  a   p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  www.britannica.com eb article-218683 sloth" http:  www.britannica.com eb article-218683 sloth  a   p 
 p class="style9" Gould, Edwin; McKay, George. “Sloths” Encyclopedia of Mammals. Ed. Edwin Gould, George McKay.  1 vol. 2nd edition. Weldon Owen Pty Limited. San Francisco. 1998.  p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  www.tigerhomes.org animal tow-toed-sloth.cfm" http:  www.tigerhomes.org animal tow-toed-sloth.cfm  a    p 
 p class="style9"  a href="http:  xenarthra.org" http:  xenarthra.org  a   br 
  p 
 p class="style8"    p 
