 p A grey wolf has lately been trotting its way around Flanders, the northern part of Belgium: the first of its kind officially confirmed in the country in more than 100 years.  p 
 p The Belgian nature organisation  em  a href="http:  www.welkomwolf.be " target="_blank" Landschap  a   em  reported the radio-collared canid hailed from Germany, where Eurasian wolves have staged a comeback in recent years. The wolf slipped into the Netherlands sometime around Christmas, then navigated Dutch terrain from north to south to cross into Belgium’s Limburg province on January 2.  p 
 p “The animal has traveled more than 500 kilometres in 10 days,”  em Landschap  em  noted on its  a href="https:  www.facebook.com landschapvzw " target="_blank" Facebook page  a , and said the wolf had most recently been located near Beringen and Leopoldsburg in eastern Flanders.  p 
 p In 2011, a film crew captured trail-camera footage of a probable wolf near Gedinne in the Ardennes of southern Belgium, though the animal’s identity was confirmed through DNA analysis or subsequent sightings:  p 
 p In a "rewilding" trend cheered by conservationists but  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk news 2017 10 09 sheep-invade-lyon-french-farmers-protest-against-wolf-attacks " target="_blank" decried by others  a , wolves have recolonised significant portions of their former range in Europe in recent decades, spreading back into the Central European Lowlands of Poland and Germany from Baltic strongholds and into the Western Alps from the Italian Appenines. A 2014 review of the status of Europe’s large carnivores  a href="https:  s3.amazonaws.com academia.edu.documents 37333031 Science_2014.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&amp;Expires=1516045058&amp;Signature=bBFFXyNGL0pkaPtI3xyvoNcBDlQ%3D&amp;response-content-disposition=inline%3B%20filename%3DRecovery_of_large_carnivores_in_Europes.pdf" target="_blank" published in  em Science  em   a  suggested wolves had been the most successful in adapting to the continent’s heavy modern human footprint. Legal protection and habitat restoration have provided a boost for this re-expansion; so have burgeoning populations of many native European ungulates – read: wolf chow – such as roe deer and wild boar.  p 
 p The wolf’s  a href=" natural-world predator-vs-prey in-germany-the-return-of-the-big-bad-wolf " target="_blank" reoccupation of modern Germany  a  began in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Today, more than a dozen packs call Deutschland home, mostly in the northeast.  p 
 p As wolves expand both there and in the French Alps, conservationists have expected them to increasingly disperse into the Low Countries. In 2011, the first wolf confirmed since the late 19th century – a German male aptly nicknamed "Wanderwolf" –  a href="http:  www.zoogdierwinkel.nl sites default files imce nieuwesite Winkel pdf%20download Lutra%2059(1-2)_Lelieveld%20et%20al_2016.pdf" target="_blank" briefly cruised the Netherlands  a ; in 2017,  a href="https:  nltimes.nl 2017 10 20 wolf-spotted-veluwe-third-wolf-netherlands-year" target="_blank" three wolves separately crossed into the country from Germany  a , including a male killed that March on the A29 motorway.  p 
 p With a population density of some 370 people per square kilometre, Belgium might seem unlikely country for a big carnivore. But the grey wolf’s reappearance in former haunts of Central and Western Europe has helped prove (as have other fronts of wolf recolonisation) that the species does not require vast blocks of remote, sparsely inhabited wilderness to survive. A  a href="https:  www.wolveninnederland.nl wolven download literatuur lelieveld-g.-2012-room-for-wolves-in-the-netherlands.pdf" target="_blank" 2012 habitat-modeling analysis   a of the wolf’s future prospects in the Netherlands estimated as many as 14 packs could inhabit the country.  a href="http:  ec.europa.eu environment nature conservation species carnivores pdf 3_Reinhardt.pdf" target="_blank" Studies from Germany  a  show packs prospering in territories with as low as about eight percent forest cover, suggesting that, with adequate prey populations, wolves can get by in the sort of landscape spectrum of agricultural fields, woodlots, towns, and cities that defines so much of modern Europe.  p 
 p “Whereas large carnivores do not permanently occur in the areas of highest human density in Europe,” the authors of that 2014  em Science   em assessment of European large carnivores wrote, “they have shown an ability to recolonize areas with moderate human densities if they are allowed, and to persist in highly human-dominated landscapes and in the proximity of urban areas in highly fragmented landscapes consisting of forest-farmland mosaics or even agro-ecosystems.”  p 
 p Belgium's wayfaring wolf comes on the heels of other exciting news on the European  em Canis lupus   em beat: In 2017, a she-wolf born to a pack south of Berlin showed up in Denmark, where male wolves have been seen over the past few years; experts suspect the  a href="https:  www.npr.org sections thetwo-way 2017 05 04 526937018 denmark-now-has-a-wild-wolf-pack-again-for-the-first-time-in-200-years" target="_blank" formation of that country's first known wolf pack  a  in some 200 years:  p 
 p 
                            Ethan Shaw is a naturalist and freelance writer hailing from Wisconsin and based in Oregon. He’s fascinated by natural history of all stripes, with special interests in landscape ecology, historical ecology, biogeography and wilderness. Follow him  a href="https:  twitter.com cutoffmountain" @CutoffMountain.  a   a href=" contributors contributor?mId=27928" VIEW more from this CONTRIBUTOR  a 
                          p 
 p  span Our planet is a busy, crazy place. And amidst all the noise, voices get lost and some stories are never heard. That’s especially true of our planet’s countless wild species: big and small, threatened and persecuted, complex and fascinating.  span   p 
 p For our growing team of writers and contributors, those are the stories that matter most: we dedicate our time to them all day and every day. In a world bursting with news, nature is our niche – and we love it that way.  p 
 p You, our viewers, are passionate about these stories we tell. Take your passion further by supporting and driving more of the nature news you know and love.  p 
 p Who's afraid of the big bad wolf? With wolf populations making a comeback in Germany, it seems people's deep-rooted fears are also resurfacing.   p 
 p A little skirmish between a dog and a cat is nothing to write home about. But a snowy standoff between a wolf and a lynx? We're listening.  p 
 p Golden jackals have spent the past few decades establishing themselves across Europe. Now, it appears they've made it to northern Germany.  p 
 p Get the latest nature news, views and videos delivered to your inbox.  p 
