 p  img class="size-full wp-image-1422 imageborder alignleft" alt="Iranan Gray Wolf" src="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org wp-content uploads 2013 05 Iranan_Gray_Wolf.jpg" width="178" height="218" srcset="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org wp-content uploads 2013 05 Iranan_Gray_Wolf.jpg 178w, https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org wp-content uploads 2013 05 Iranan_Gray_Wolf-140x170.jpg 140w" sizes="(max-width: 178px) 100vw, 178px"  span class="BrownHeader" Natural History br 
  span  span style="font-size: 14px;" The Iranian wolf   span  span style="font-size: 14px;" prominently featured in popular literature such as Rudyard Kipling’s,   span  i style="font-size: 14px;" The Jungle Book  i  span style="font-size: 14px;" , once ranged from the Middle East across Asia. This beautiful and unique animal is also referred to as the Indian or Asiatic wolf.  span   p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" A subspecies of the gray wolf, the Iranian is smaller than its counterparts in Northern Europe and America. Standing 18 to 30 inches tall at the shoulder, Iranian wolves weigh between 55 to 70 pounds.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" The short, pale color of their fur helps them to blend into the semi-arid landscape that they call home. Little or no undercoat keeps them cool in the hot climate of the Middle East.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Despite the differences that exist among different populations of Iranian wolves, they are unique from other subspecies of the gray wolf in their overall small body size, light pelage, habit of hunting small animals, and the fact that they apparently seldom howl.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Iranian wolves prey on a variety of small mammals including hares, mongooses, rats, squirrels, and ground birds such as partridges, quails, jungle fowl and lapwings.  p 
 p class="BrownHeader" Distribution &amp; range br 
 span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" Originally the range of   span  i style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" Canis lupus pallipes  i  span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;"  extended across the Indian subcontinent and included parts of Israel, Iran, Turkey, and India. No good estimates exist as to how many wolves might have lived in the Middle East prior to the early 1900’s. However, researchers are certain that their numbers have decreased dramatically over the last century.  span   p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Due to the fact that the range of  i Canis lupus pallipes  i  covers several countries, it has been difficult to determine the number of wild wolves still alive. India is home to approximately 400 wolves, Israel 200-300, and even fewer in Iran and Turkey. Small populations of Iranian wolves might still exist across the Indian subcontinent.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Iranian wolves inhabit a variety of terrain, from arid desert landscapes to richer scrub forests. As a result, there are many physical and behavioral differences among individual populations of Iranian wolves. Wolves living in drier, harsher climates show adaptations to their environment such as their small body size, hunting individually or in pairs, and the habit of eating rotting fruits to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Iranian wolf populations living in less harsh climates have larger prey available to hunt and as a result are slightly larger, and hunt in bigger packs.  p 
 p class="BrownHeader" Population decline br 
 span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" While hunting and trapping by humans have played a part in the decline of this subspecies of wolf, the primary factors include drastic loss of habitat, decline in prey populations, and increase in human populations within the wolf’s historic ranges.  span   p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Today, surviving Iranian wolves have retreated to less than desirable lands to escape encroaching human populations. Native prey populations have also decreased alarmingly due to human subsistence hunting. Many wolves in these areas have turned to scavenging and visiting local dumps to avoid starvation. Others have turned to preying on plentiful livestock that they share their habitat with.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Since so many surviving Iranian wolves are forced to share their habitat and their prey source with villagers, many locals view them as a threat. While many Iranian wolf populations are guilty of attacking livestock, much of the damage they are accused of is actually caused by wild dog packs.  p 
 p class="BrownHeader" Recovering Iranian wolves br 
 span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" Although the range of Canis lupus pallipes crosses the borders of several countries, it is not afforded the international protection of other declining wolf subspecies. Israel has protected its small wolf population since 1954. India has been working to preserve its declining population since 1972. Even with government protection, the intense politics involving the Middle East peace process leaves little energy implementing government protection for these animals.  span   p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" In an effort to find a way to preserve this beautiful wolf, scientists have been studying Iranian wolves. Researchers understand that in order to prevent this subspecies from becoming extinct, it will be necessary to work with the local villagers and livestock owners. Most of the villagers that encounter the Iranian wolf are so poor that their primary concern must be addressing their daily needs, and the welfare of these animals is often overlooked.  p 
 p class="ewcmaincopy" Today, researchers are focusing on realistic ways to save the Iranian wolf. In Israel a study involving the use of guard dogs to protect livestock from predators is underway. One thing is certain; efforts to save Iranian wolves must include obtaining the acceptance of the wolf by local people. Practices that help local people to generate money that benefit wildlife are likely to be the most successful, such as money generated from ecotourism.  p 
 p class="BrownHeader" Iranian wolves at the EWC? br 
 span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" The Endangered Wolf Center was home to Iranian wolves since it’s beginning in 1971.   span  a style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;" title="Our Founders" href="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org our-founders " Marlin Perkins  a  span style="color: #929292; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;"  received four orphaned pups as a gift from the Shah of Iran. This lineage lived at the Endangered Wolf Center until the last Iranian in the wolf, Rafsenjahni, passed away after a full sixteen years of age. He was the last Iranian wolf in North America. We will remember him dearly.  span   p 
 p    p 
 p  span class="footer-small" The Endangered Wolf Center is a br 
501(c)(3) non-profit organization certified by the Association of Zoos &amp; br 
Aquariums (AZA). Look for this logo whenever you br 
visit a zoo or aquarium as your assurance that you br 
are supporting a facility dedicated to providing br 
excellent care for animals, a great experience for br 
you, and a better future for all living things. br 
 div id="ewc-float-button"  a href="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org make-donation "  img src="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org wp-content plugins floating-ewc-button donate-button.png" alt="Donate Now" width="130" height="120" border="0" class="ewc_floating_button"   a   div   div id="ewc-visit-div"  a href="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org take-a-tour tours booking-tours-activities "  img src="https:  www.endangeredwolfcenter.org wp-content plugins floating-ewc-button book_visit_button75.jpg" alt="Book Tours" width="102" height="27" border="0" class="ewc_visit_button"   a   div   span   p 
