 p Do you want to volunteer abroad with animals, or are you seeking wildlife volunteer opportunities to support animal conservation efforts abroad?  p 
 p IVHQ’s affordable Animal Care and Wildlife Conservation volunteer projects offer the opportunity to volunteer abroad with animals to support the protection of endangered species, and help improve the quality of life for abandoned or rescued animals. IVHQ volunteers work with wildlife conservation organizations and animal shelters that have a real impact on the future of animals, their habitats and our planet.  p 
 p As an IVHQ volunteer, you can choose to contribute to wildlife conservation efforts in Victoria Falls, wild elephant conservation in Sri Lanka, wolf conservation in Portugal, or sea turtle conservation in Bali, Costa Rica and Guatemala. There are also animal volunteer opportunities in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, Jamaica and Italy - Rome, where you can provide care for abandoned cats and dogs in animals shelters.  p 
 p If you have a passion for environmental conservation and want to play a part in improving the protected natural habitats of wildlife in Africa, Asia or Europe, our wildlife conservation, wolf conservation, and wild elephant conservation projects give you the unique opportunity to support the protection of natural landscapes, learn about wildlife conservation techniques, as well as study and monitor native and endangered species.  p 
 p If you’re interested in volunteering with animals overseas and want to join one of our animal work volunteer projects in South America or Central America, you’ll be volunteering in animal shelters and dog rescue centers, providing support in feeding, caring for, and playing with the animals, as well as helping with cleaning and facility maintenance.  p 
 p Learn more about our wildlife conservation volunteer projects and animal volunteer opportunities available in the destinations below.  p 
 p class="text-gray-800 mb-2"  b Apply &amp; Register  b  for any IVHQ program for a chance to win 100% off your volunteer fees!  p 
 p class="text-gray-800 mb-2"  b Apply &amp; Register  b  for any IVHQ program for a chance to win 100% off your volunteer fees!  p 
