 p class="highlighted-text" "Spring Winter" discount! Book now in GBP for remaining spaces on winter experiences March-May 2019 to save 10% on published prices for Sweden and 5% for Norway and Finland!  p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Nature Travels  p 
 p class="make-italic" "Why should I visit Sweden?"  p 
 p "Because it is one of the world's most underrated wildlife destinations. Sweden's vast coniferous forests and pristine lakes and wetlands are
                        packed with exciting species including 2,500 European brown bears, more than 200,000 beavers, 250,000 moose and 200 wolves."  span class="make-italic" Simon 
            Birch, BBC Wildlife magazine  span 
                      p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Håkan Vargas  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p Sweden's largest predator, the brown bear, can weigh up to 350kg. It eats mainly berries, ants and shrubs, but may also hunt voles and salmon.
                            The brown bear hibernates during the winter, and cubs are born every two or three years. Sweden has around 2500 bears in the wild. Read
                            more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2008 01 28 brown-bears-in-sweden-the-shy-giant-of-the-wilderness " Brown 
            Bears in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Nature Travels  p 
 p The wolverine is the largest of the mustelids (a group of animals which includes the badger and the otter), and can weigh up to 30kg. In
                            summer the wolverine feeds mainly on birds and mammals, but in winter will eat reindeer killed either by itself or other predators. Protected
                            in Sweden since 1969, the wolverine is still rare in Sweden, with around 450 wild individuals, and it is still one of Sweden's most threatened
                            species. You may spot the tracks of this shy predator on our  a href="water-canoe-tours-sweden-discover-wilderness-canoeing-rogen-ts48cs1.htm" Discover 
            Wilderness Canoeing in Rogen  a  experience in the beautiful Rogen reserve in north-east Sweden. Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2007 04 10 the-wolverine-a-predator-on-the-edge " Wolverines 
            in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Mikko Nikkinen  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p The wolf is a social animal, with packs consisting of 10-15 wolves. All the wolves in a pack will be related, e.g. two parents and offspring.
                            During summer, wolves hunt by themselves or in pairs, while in autumn and winter they hunt together in packs to be able to target bigger
                            animals like the elk. The population of wild wolves in Sweden is around 130 individuals. Nature Travels offers you the chance to track
                            and howl with a wolf pack on our  a href="wildlife-sweden-howling-with-wolves-sk2ws2.htm" Wolf Howling Tour  a . Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2007 01 15 wolves-in-sweden-%e2%80%93-coming-back-from-the-brink " Wolves 
            in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p The grey wolf was thought to be extinct in Sweden until an isolated population of just 10 individuals was discovered in the southern forests
                        in the 1980s. The population was in a genetic bottleneck with all individuals closely related, but vital new blood was introduced when a
                        lone wolf from Russia migrated into their territory. One study showed that, of the 73 wolf pups born between 1993 and 2001, 68 were related
                        to this one lone migrant.  p 
 p Today, the Swedish population is once again desperately in need of new blood, and recently a Finnish wolf was found to have made its way down
                        the country to join the Swedish wolves in Dalarna. If conflicts between the animals and human interests can be managed successfully, the
                        gene pool of the Swedish wolf may once more have a future.  p 
 p Nature Travels has previously supported Swedish wolf conservation through Svenska Rovdjursföreningen, the Swedish Predator Society. For
                        more information on the conservation efforts currently supported by Nature Travels, please see  a href="ecotourism.htm" Ecotourism  a .  p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Håkan Vargas  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p One of the largest birds of prey, the golden eagle has broad wings and a longish tail and a different outline from the buzzard, which is
                            smaller. It loves to glide on air currents, holding its wings in a shallow V. Golden eagles have nesting places and territories which
                            may by used for generations. Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2007 07 25 the-golden-eagle-%e2%80%93-grace-under-pressure " Golden 
            Eagles in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Håkan Vargas  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p Sweden's only feline, the lynx weighs 15-30kg, with males being larger than females. The lynx is a skilful hunter, catching hare, wildfowl
                            and voles, as well as larger animals such as roe-deer and reindeer. It mates in March, with young being born in May. In Sweden the lynx
                            has been protected since 1991, and the wild population is now around 1300. Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2007 05 15 the-lynx-tiger-of-the-north " Lynx 
            in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Staffan Widstrand  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p Sweden's largest mammal, the male elk can weigh up to 700kg. It has brown to greyish-black, with greyish-white legs. This makes the elk hard
                            to see sometimes in the forests. Elks in Sweden number around 210,000. The Latin name,  span class="make-italic" Alces alces  span ,
                            is known as a "moose" in North America and an "elk" in Sweden. But in North America, an "elk" is a deer-like animal otherwise known as
                            a "Wapiti"! Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2007 10 29 what%e2%80%99s-the-difference-between-a-moose-and-an-elk " Moose 
            in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Jörgen Petterson  p 
 p The beaver became extinct in Sweden in the late 19th century, but was reintroduced from Norway in 1922. Since then it has thrived and populations
                            in Värmland alone number several thousand. It can be up to three feet long not including the tail and weigh up to 65 pounds. Our  a href="wildlife-sweden-forest-weekend-moose-beaver-safari-sk4ws1.htm" Moose and Beaver Safari with Howling with Wolves  a  experience focuses on beaver, while our  a href="water-sweden-timber-rafting-klaralven-vv58rs1.htm" Timber 
            Rafting on Klarälven  a  and  a href="water-canoe-tours-sweden-svartalven-vv714cs2.htm" Canoe 
            on Svartälven  a  experiences also give you good chances of spotting this fascinating natural engineer. Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2006 12 15 beavers-here-today-here-tomorrow " Beavers 
            in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Asgeir Helgestad Artic Light AS visitnorway.com  p 
 p Arctic foxes do not hibernate and can withstand temperatures of -50 deg C. They are pure white in winter and generally greyish-brown in summer.
                            They may be over a metre long including the tail and weigh up to 8kg. Although they are omnivores, they prefer small mammals such as
                            lemmings, eggs, carrion and berries. Critically endangered with a European mainland population of only around 150, important populations
                            of Arctic foxes inhabit Vindelfjällen Nature Reserve, the setting for some of our  a href="dog-sledding-sweden-northern-lights-vindelfjallen-pk5dw1.htm" dog sledding 
            experiences  a  in northern Sweden. Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2013 08 29 the-arctic-fox-in-sweden-and-norway " Arctic 
            Foxes in Sweden and Norway »  a 
                          p 
 p Since 1985, conservationists in the 2100km2  a href="dog-sledding-sweden-northern-lights-vindelfjallen-pk5dw1.htm" Vindelfjällen 
            Nature Reserve  a  in northern Sweden have been working to monitor and conserve the Arctic Fox population in an important stronghold for this critically
                        endangered species.  p 
 p The work involves den inventories, radio telemetry and feeding programmes aimed at decreasing the mortality of young pups.  p 
 p After many years of hard work, Arctic Fox populations are showing signs of recovery.  p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Staffan Widstrand  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p The Sea Eagle, or White-Tailed Eagle, is the largest bird of prey in northern Europe. After many years of determined conservation effort,
                            it is now well and truly back from the brink of extinction. Sweden now has around 350 breeding pairs with around 900 young individuals,
                            while Norway has the largest population in Europe with around 11,000 pairs. There are a number of Sea Eagles inhabiting the eastern archipelago
                            and may be seen on our  a href="kayaking-sweden-stockholm-archipelago-kayak-explorer-hk3ks1.htm" Stockholm archipelago Self-guided Kayak Explorer  a  and  a href="sea-kayaking-sweden-st-anna-ok3ks1.htm" Discover Sea Kayaking in St Anna and Gryt  a  experiences.
                            Read more about  a href="https:  naturetravels.wordpress.com 2008 08 18 sea-eagles-and-ospreys-in-sweden-%E2%80%93-masters-of-the-archipelago-skies " Sea 
            Eagles in Sweden »  a 
                          p 
 p In 1971, when Project Sea Eagle began working to reverse the decline of Sweden's largest and most powerful raptor, Sea Eagles were on the brink
                        of extinction in Sweden, with a country-wide population reduced to just 150 individuals, largely due to toxins in the food chain affecting
                        egg development.  p 
 p Today, following more than 30 years of dedicated conservation work, the future for the species in Sweden is once again looking much brighter,
                        with Sea Eagles in Sweden numbering around 1,700.  p 
 p class="photo-credit" Photo: Jörgen Wiklund  imagebank.sweden.se  p 
 p The grey seal is the largest of the seal species of Sweden, and may be up to three metres long and weigh up to 300kg. The grey seal will
                            eat many kinds of fish, and while it lives in the sea can survive for long periods on land. One pup is born on an ice floe in February.
                            The population in the Baltic numbers around 6,000. Grey seals inhabit the outer areas of the Stockholm Archipelago.  p 
 p The capercaillie is a huge woodland grouse which spends much of its time ground feeding but may also feed on shoots in trees. The large black Capercaillie
                    males are unmistakable.  p 
 p The Roe Deer is Sweden's most common deer, seldom weighing over 35kg. Sweden has a population of around a million. In the south and middle of the
                    country the roe deer is common but rarer further north. Red deer and Fallow deer also occur in Sweden but have more scattered populations.
                  p 
 p The males of the black grouse are all black and have a distinctive red wattle over the eye and white stripe along each wing in flight. They have
                    a lyre-shaped tail which is fanned out and raised during display revealing white under-tail feathers. The females are smaller and grey-brown
                    with a slightly notched tail.  p 
 p All information, products and prices on this website are subject to change without notice.  p 
 p Registered Office:  span itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org LocalBusiness"  span itemprop="name" Nature Travels Ltd  span   span , 2 Leanne Business Centre, Sandford Lane, Wareham, Dorset BH20 4DY, United Kingdom | Company No: 5636754  p 
 p Email: admin@naturetravels.co.uk | Tel: +44(0)1929 503080 | © Nature Travels 2018  p 
 p  a href=" sitemap.htm" Site Map  a  |  a href=" privacy-policy.htm" Privacy and Cookies  a   p 
