 p The lobo was once “top dog” in the borderlands, and when the wolf population returns to healthy numbers, biologists believe that lobos will restore balance to the Southwest’s ecosystems by keeping deer, elk and javelina—a type of peccary —populations healthy and in check. Wolves strengthen these animals by preying on the old, sick and young, and prevent their populations from growing so numerous that they overgraze and destroy habitat that countless other species depend on.  p 
 p Mexican wolves mostly eat ungulates (large hoofed mammals) like elk, white-tailed deer, and mule deer. They are also known to eat smaller mammals like javelinas, rabbits, ground squirrels and mice.  p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p Mexican gray wolves are not necessarily gray. In fact, their fur is a mix of gray, rust, black and cream.  p 
 p After being wiped out in the U.S. and with only a few animals remaining in Mexico, Mexican gray wolves were bred in captivity and reintroduced to the wild in Arizona beginning in 1998. There are only about 300 Mexican wolves total in captivity. The goal of the reintroduction program was to restore at least 100 wolves to the wild by 2006, and it will take many more than that before the lobo is safe from extinction. Today there are approximately 114 of these wolves in the wild.  p 
 p Mexican gray wolves prefer mountain forests, grasslands and scrublands. They once ranged widely from central Mexico throughout the southwestern U.S. Today, the Mexican wolf has been reintroduced to the Apache National Forest in southeastern Arizona, and may move into the adjacent Gila National Forest in western New Mexico as the population expands.  Recently, Mexican wolves have also begun to be reintroduced in Mexico.  p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p The Mexican gray wolf is about half the size of its cousin, the North American gray wolf.  p 
 p Mexican gray wolves are very social animals. They live in packs, which are complex social structures that include the breeding adult pair (the alpha male and female) and their offspring. A hierarchy of dominant and subordinate animals within the pack help it to work as a unit.  p 
 p Pups are born blind and defenseless. The pack cares for the pups until they mature at about 10 months of age.  p 
 p  strong Mating Season:  strong  Mid February - mid March br  strong Gestation:  strong  63 days br  strong Litter size:  strong  4 - 7 pups  p 
 p  strong Height:  strong  26-32 inches at the shoulder. br  strong Length:  strong  4.5-5.5 feet from nose to tip of tail. br  strong Weight:  strong  60-80 lbs; Males are typically heavier and taller than the females. br  strong Lifespan:  strong  Up to 15 years in captivity.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
