 p style="text-align: justify;" Register for one of our programs:  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" align="center"  a href=" calendar " class="uk-button uk-button-primary uk-button-medium" Calendar  a   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" We appreciate your donations:  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" align="center"  a href=" index.php?option=com_civicrm&amp;view=Contributions&amp;Itemid=212" class="uk-button uk-button-primary uk-button-medium" Donate  a   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Stand for Wolves  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" align="center"  a href=" index.php support-us take-action" class="uk-button uk-button-primary uk-button-medium" Take action  a   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Northeast Wolf Coalition  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" align="center"  a href="http:  www.northeastwolf.org " class="uk-button uk-button-primary uk-button-medium" Learn more  a   p 
 p class="articleinfo " 
							 span class="meta-prep meta-prep-author" Posted on  span   a href="https:  nywolf.org feds-seek-to-strip-federal-esa-protection-for-gray-wolves-nationwide " title="7:38 pm" rel="bookmark"  span class="entry-date createdate updated" March 6, 2019  span   a   span class="meta-sep" by  span   span class="author createby vcard"  a class="url fn n" href="https:  nywolf.org author maggie-howell " title="View all posts by Wolf Conservation Center" Wolf Conservation Center  a   span 						  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  strong  em The ESA let our country give wolves a second chance. With second chances so hard to come by, should we be willing to throw them away?  em   strong   p 
 p Today, Acting Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt announced that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) will soon propose a rule to remove federal Endangered Species Act protections for gray wolves in the lower 48 states.  p 
 p Wolves once ranged across most of North America, a vital part of many varied ecosystems. But an unremitting slaughter by humans brought wolves to the brink of extinction. By the 1960s, government-sponsored extermination had wiped out nearly all wolves in the Lower 48 states. Only a small population of gray wolves remained in extreme northeastern Minnesota and on Isle Royale.  p 
 p The Endangered Species Act, signed into law in 1973, gave us a second chance to right this wrong.  p 
 p With ESA protections and the support of the American public, the gray wolf was able to return to limited portions of its native range. In areas where wolves began to recover, like the northern Rocky Mountain states and western Great Lakes states, scientists have noted more diverse plant and wildlife thriving where they had been suppressed for decades.  p 
 p By stripping federal protections from nearly all gray wolves nationwide, wolves in historically occupied areas like the southern Rockies and Northeast may never be able to establish viable populations despite suitable habitat and availability of prey.  p 
 p Losing federal ESA protections would also have deadly implications for wolves: in just the last few years, thousands of wolves have been shot or trapped in states where protections were temporarily or permanently lifted.  p 
 p This isn’t the first attempt by USFWS to strip gray wolves of federal protection. The Obama administration had also proposed removing the wolves’ endangered status in 2013, but the effort was unsuccessful. In the  a href="https:  www.fws.gov home wolfrecovery pdf Final_Review_of_Proposed_rule_regarding_wolves2014.pdf" target="_blank" Independent Peer Review  a  of the 2013 delisting rule, the five-member panel of scientists agreed unanimously that USFWS’s proposal was based on insufficient science.  p 
 p USFWS intends to publish the proposed rule in the Federal Register in the coming days, opening a public comment period on the proposal. This proposal will exclude Mexican gray wolves, which would remain a listed subspecies under the ESA.  p 
 p class="articleinfo " 
							 span class="meta-prep meta-prep-author" Posted on  span   a href="https:  nywolf.org nps-releases-four-more-wolves-on-michigans-isle-royale " title="1:49 pm" rel="bookmark"  span class="entry-date createdate updated" March 4, 2019  span   a   span class="meta-sep" by  span   span class="author createby vcard"  a class="url fn n" href="https:  nywolf.org author maggie-howell " title="View all posts by Wolf Conservation Center" Wolf Conservation Center  a   span 						  p 
 p Before the National Park Service began its wolf relocation project last fall, the last two wolves to call Isle Royale home were at risk of vanishing from the island altogether, along with the island’s ongoing wolf-moose study that began nearly 60 years ago.  p 
 p The wolf relocation project is a part of a planned “genetic rescue” of Isle Royale’s dwindling wolf population. Scientists working on the island’s wolf-moose study had been advocating for relocating wolves to the island for years. They believe that a genetic rescue is the only option for keeping the species going and allow the unique ecological study to continue.  p 
 p The wolf relocation project’s goal is to provide much-needed genetic diversity for the island’s wolves. Additional wolves will help restore the predator-prey balance on the island between wolves and moose.  p 
 p Translocating wolves, however, is easier said than successfully achieved. Two wolves died last fall since their initial capture on the mainland. A female died upon capture before making it to the island, and a male was found dead on the island just weeks after his release there. Another female left the island during the coldest days of the season via an ice bridge that formed between island and Canada.  p 
 p Members of the wolf relocation project hope the newest relocated wolves, three males and a female released last week, will fare better in their new home. Only time will tell. In the meantime, follow  a href="https:  www.facebook.com Wolves-and-Moose-of-Isle-Royale-153522341415661 " Wolves and Moose of Isle Royale  a  for updates.  p 
 p class="articleinfo " 
							 span class="meta-prep meta-prep-author" Posted on  span   a href="https:  nywolf.org webcam-footage-answers-age-old-question-where-do-wolf-pups-come-from " title="1:49 pm" rel="bookmark"  span class="entry-date createdate updated" March 3, 2019  span   a   span class="meta-sep" by  span   span class="author createby vcard"  a class="url fn n" href="https:  nywolf.org author maggie-howell " title="View all posts by Wolf Conservation Center" Wolf Conservation Center  a   span 						  p 
 p It’s an exciting time for wolves — it’s the season of romance. Hormones are racing, and earlier this week red wolves Charlotte (F2121) and Jack (M1606) engaged in a copulatory tie – three times!  p 
 p The gestation period (length of pregnancy) is 63 days. So, for now, keep your paws crossed that Charlotte and Jack will be welcoming priceless (and adorable) contributions to the recovery of their rare species later this spring.  p 
 p The Wolf Conservation Center is one of a network of facilities participating in the Red Wolf Species Survival Plan – a national initiative whose primary purpose is to support the reestablishment of red wolves in the wild through captive breeding, public education, and research.  p 
 p The Red Wolf Species Survival Plan (SSP) management group determines which wolves should be bred each year by using software developed for the population management of endangered species. This is necessary because all red wolves descended from just fourteen founders rescued from extinction. Genetic diversity is the primary consideration in the selection of red wolf breeding pairs and Charlotte and Jack are a great match on paper with an extremely low inbreeding coefficient.  p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
