 p class="dek" itemprop="description" The first domesticated animals may have been tamed twice.  p 
 p Tens of thousands of years ago, before the internet, before the Industrial Revolution, before literature and mathematics, bronze and iron, before the advent of agriculture, early humans formed an unlikely partnership with another animal—the grey wolf. The fates of our two species became braided together. The wolves changed in body and temperament. Their skulls, teeth, and paws shrank. Their ears flopped. They gained a docile disposition, becoming both less frightening and less fearful. They learned to read the complex expressions that ripple across human faces. They turned into dogs.  p 
 p Today, dogs are such familiar parts of our lives—our reputed best friends and subject of  a href="http:  knowyourmeme.com memes doge" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'0',r'484976'" many a meme  a —that it’s easy to take them, and what they represent, for granted. Dogs were the first domesticated animals, and their barks heralded the Anthropocene. We raised puppies well before we raised kittens or chickens; before we herded cows, goats, pigs, and sheep; before we planted rice, wheat, barley, and corn; before we remade the world.  p 
 p “Remove domestication from the human species, and there’s probably a couple of million of us on the planet, max,” says archaeologist and geneticist Greger Larson. “Instead, what do we have? Seven billion people, climate change, travel, innovation and everything. Domestication has influenced the entire earth. And dogs were the first.” For most of human history, “we’re not dissimilar to any other wild primate. We’re manipulating our environments, but not on a scale bigger than, say, a herd of African elephants. And then, we go into partnership with this group of wolves. They altered our relationship with the natural world.”  p 
 p Larson wants to pin down their origins. He wants to know when, where, and how they were domesticated from wolves. But after decades of dogged effort, he and his fellow scientists are still arguing about the answers. They agree that all dogs, from low-slung corgis to towering mastiffs, are the tame descendants of wild ancestral wolves. But everything else is up for grabs.  p 
 p Some say wolves were domesticated around 10,000 years ago, while others say 30,000. Some claim it happened in Europe, others in the Middle East, or East Asia. Some think early human hunter-gatherers actively tamed and bred wolves. Others say wolves domesticated themselves, by scavenging the carcasses left by human hunters, or loitering around campfires, growing tamer with each generation until they became permanent companions.  p 
 p Dogs were domesticated so long ago, and have cross-bred so often with wolves and each other, that their genes are like “a completely homogenous bowl of soup,” Larson tells me, in his office at the University of Oxford. “Somebody goes: what ingredients were added, in what proportion and in what order, to make that soup?” He shrugs his shoulders. “The patterns we see could have been created by 17 different narrative scenarios, and we have no way of discriminating between them.”  p 
 p The only way of doing so is to look into the past. Larson, who is fast-talking, eminently likable, and grounded in both archaeology and genetics, has been gathering fossils and collaborators in an attempt to yank the DNA out of as many dog and wolf fossils as he can. Those sequences will show exactly how the ancient canines relate to each other and to modern pooches. They’re the field’s best hope for getting firm answers to questions that have hounded them for decades.  p 
 p And already, they have yielded a surprising discovery that could radically reframe the debate around dog domestication, so that the big question is no longer when it happened, or where, but  em how many times  em .  p 
 p align="center"  strong *    *   *  strong   p 
 p On the eastern edge of Ireland lies Newgrange, a 4,800-year-old monument that predates Stonehenge and the pyramids of Giza. Beneath its large circular mound and within its underground chambers lie many fragments of animal bones. And among those fragments, Dan Bradley from Trinity College Dublin found the petrous bone of a dog.  p 
 p Press your finger behind your ear. That’s the petrous. It’s a bulbous knob of very dense bone that’s exceptionally good at preserving DNA. If you try to pull DNA out of a fossil, most of it will come from contaminating microbes and just a few percent will come from the bone’s actual owner. But if you’ve got a petrous bone, that proportion can be as high as 80 percent. And indeed, Bradley found DNA galore within the bone, enough to sequence the full genome of the long-dead dog.  p 
 p Larson and his colleague Laurent Frantz then compared the Newgrange sequences with those of almost 700 modern dogs, and built a family tree that revealed the relationships between these individuals. To their surprise, that tree had an obvious fork in its trunk—a deep divide between two doggie dynasties. One includes all the dogs from eastern Eurasia, such as Shar Peis and Tibetan mastiffs. The other includes all the western Eurasian breeds, and the Newgrange dog.  p 
 p The genomes of the dogs from the western branch suggest that they went through a population bottleneck—a dramatic dwindling of numbers. Larson interprets this as evidence of a long migration. He thinks that the two dog lineages began as a single population in the east, before one branch broke off and headed west. This supports the idea that dogs were domesticated somewhere in China.  p 
 p But there’s a critical twist.  p 
 p The team calculated that the two dog dynasties split from each other between 6,400 and 14,000 years ago.  But the oldest dog fossils in  em both   em western and eastern Eurasia are  em older   em than that. Which means that when those eastern dogs migrated west into Europe, there were  em already dogs there  em .  p 
 p To Larson, these details only make sense if dogs were domesticated twice.  p 
 p Here’s the full story, as he sees it. Many thousands of years ago, somewhere in western Eurasia, humans domesticated grey wolves. The same thing happened independently, far away in the east. So, at this time, there were two distinct and geographically separated groups of dogs. Let’s call them Ancient Western and Ancient Eastern. Around the Bronze Age, some of the Ancient Eastern dogs migrated westward alongside their human partners, separating from their homebound peers and creating the deep split in Larson’s tree. Along their travels, these migrants encountered the indigenous Ancient Western dogs, mated with them (doggy style, presumably), and effectively replaced them.  p 
 p Today’s eastern dogs are the descendants of the Ancient Eastern ones. But today’s  em western  em  dogs (and the Newgrange one) trace most of their ancestry to the Ancient Eastern migrants. Less than 10 percent comes from the Ancient Western dogs, which have since gone extinct.  p 
 p This is a bold story for Larson to endorse, not least because he himself has come down hard on other papers suggesting that cows, sheep, or other species were domesticated twice. “Any claims for more than one need to be substantially backed up by a lot of evidence,” he says. “Pigs were clearly domesticated in Anatolia and in East Asia. Everything else is once.” Well, except maybe dogs.  p 
 p align="center" *   *   *  p 
 p Other canine genetics experts think that Larson’s barking up the wrong tree. “I’m somewhat underwhelmed, since it’s based on a single specimen,” says Bob Wayne from the University of California, Los Angeles. He buys that there’s a deep genetic division between modern dogs. But, it’s still possible that dogs were domesticated just once, creating a large, widespread, interbreeding population that only later resolved into two distinct lineages.  p 
 p In 2013,  a href="http:  science.sciencemag.org content 342 6160 871" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'2',r'484976'" Wayne’s team compared the mitochondrial genomes  a  (small rings of DNA that sit outside the main set) of 126 modern dogs and wolves, and 18 fossils. They concluded that dogs were domesticated somewhere in Europe or western Siberia, between 18,800 and 32,100 years ago. And genes aside, “the density of fossils from Europe tells us something,” says Wayne. “There are many things that look like dogs, and nothing quite like that in east Asia.”  p 
 p Peter Savolainen from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm disagrees.  a href="recently%20compared" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'3',r'484976'" By comparing the full genomes of 58 modern wolves and dogs  a , his team has shown that dogs in southern China are the most genetically diverse in the world. They must have originated there around 33,000 years ago, he says, before a subset of them migrated west 18,000 years later.  p 
 p That’s essentially the same story that Larson is telling. The key difference is that Savolainen doesn’t buy the existence of an independently domesticated group of western dogs. “That’s stretching the data very much,” he says. Those Ancient Western dogs might have just been wolves, he says. Or perhaps they were an even earlier group of migrants from the east. “I think the picture must seem a bit chaotic,” he says understatedly. “But for me, it’s pretty clear. It must have happened in southern East Asia. You can’t interpret it any other way.”  p 
 p Except, you totally can. Wayne does (“I’m certainly less dogmatic than Peter,” he says). Adam Boyko from Cornell University does, too: after studying the genes of village dogs—free-ranging mutts that live near human settlements— a href="in" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'4',r'484976'" he argued for a single domestication in Central Asia  a , somewhere near India or Nepal. And clearly, Larson does as well.  p 
 p Larson adds that his gene-focused peers are ignoring one crucial line of evidence—bones. If dogs originated just once, there should be a neat gradient of fossils with the oldest ones at the center of domestication and the youngest ones far away from it. That’s not what we have. Instead, archaeologists have found 15,000-year-old dog fossils in western Europe, 12,500-year-old ones in east Asia, and nothing older than 8,000 years in between.  p 
 p “If we’re wrong, then how on earth do you explain the archaeological data?” says Larson. “Did dogs jump from East Asia to Western Europe in a week, and then go all the way back 4,000 years later?” No. A dual domestication makes more sense. Mietje Genompré, an archaeologist from the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, agrees that the bones support Larson’s idea. “For me, it’s very convincing,” she says.  p 
 p But even Larson is hedging his bets. When I ask him how strong his evidence is, he says, “Like, put a number on it? If was being bold, I’d say it’s a 7 out of 10. We lack the smoking gun.”  p 
 p Why is this so hard? Of all the problems that scientists struggle with, why has the origin of dogs been such a bitch to solve?  p 
 p For starters, the timing is hard to pin down because no one knows exactly how fast dog genomes change. That pace—the mutation rate—underpins a lot of genetic studies. It allows scientists to compare modern dogs and ask: How long ago must these lineages have diverged in order to build up this many differences in their genes? And since individual teams use mutation rate estimates that are wildly different, it’s no wonder they’ve arrived at conflicting answers.  p 
 p Regardless of the exact date, it’s clear that over thousands of years, dogs have mated with each other, cross-bred with wolves, travelled over the world, and been deliberately bred by humans. The resulting ebb and flow of genes has turned their history into a muddy, turbid mess—the homogeneous soup that Larson envisages.  p 
 p Wolves provide no clarity. Grey wolves used to live across the entire Northern Hemisphere, so they could have potentially been domesticated anywhere within that vast range (although North America is certainly out). What’s more,  a href="http:  journals.plos.org plosgenetics article?id=10.1371 journal.pgen.1004016" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'5',r'484976'" genetic studies tell us  a  that no living group of wolves is more closely related to dogs than any other, which means that the wolves that originally gave rise to dogs are now extinct. Sequencing living wolves and dogs will never truly reveal their shrouded past; it’d be, as Larson says, like trying to solve a crime when the culprit isn’t even on the list of suspects.  p 
 p “The only way to know for sure is to go back in time,” he adds.  p 
 p align="center" *    *   *  p 
 p The study informally known as the Big Dog Project was born of frustration. Back in 2011, Larson was working hard on the origin of domestic pigs, and became annoyed that scientists studying dogs were getting less rigorous papers in more prestigious journals, simply because their subjects were that much more charismatic and media-friendly. So he called up his longstanding collaborator Keith Dobney. “Through gritted teeth, I said: We’re fucking doing dogs. And he said: I’m in.”  p 
 p Right from the start, the duo realized that studying living dogs would never settle the great domestication debate. The only way to do that was to sequence ancient DNA from fossil dogs and wolves, throughout their range and at different points in history. While other scientists were studying the soup of dog genetics by tasting the finished product, Larson would reach back in time to taste it at every step of its creation, allowing him to definitively reconstruct the entire recipe.  p 
 p In recent decades, scientists have become increasingly successful at extracting and sequencing strands of DNA from fossils. This ancient DNA has done wonders for our understanding of our own evolution. It showed, for example,  a href="http:  www.nature.com news european-languages-linked-to-migration-from-the-east-1.16919" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'7',r'484976'" how Europe was colonized  a  40,000 years ago by hunter-gatherers moving up from Africa, then 8,000 years ago by Middle Eastern farmers, and 5,000 years ago by horse-riding herders from the Russian steppes. “Everyone in Europe today is a blend of those three populations,” says Larson, who hopes to parse the dog genome in the same way, by slicing it into its constituent ingredients.  p 
 p Larson originally envisaged a small project—just him and Dobney analyzing a few fossils. But he got more funding, collaborators, and samples than he expected. “It just kind of metastasized out of all proportion,” he says. He and his colleagues would travel the world, drilling into fossils and carting chips of bone back to Oxford. They went to museums and private collections. (“There was a guy up in York who had a ton of stuff in his garage.”) They grabbed bones from archaeological sites.  p 
 p The pieces of bone come back to a facility in Oxford called the Palaeo-BARN—the Palaeogenomics and Bioarchaeology Research Network. When I toured the facility with Larson, we wore white overalls, surgical masks, oversoles, and purple gloves, to keep our DNA (and that of our skin microbes) away from the precious fossil samples. Larson called them ‘spacesuits.’ I was thinking ‘thrift-store ninja.’  p 
 p In one room, the team shoves pieces of bone into a machine that pounds it with a small ball bearing, turning solid shards into fine powder. They then send the powder through a gauntlet of chemicals and filters to pull out the DNA and get rid of everything else. The result is a tiny drop of liquid that contains the genetic essence of a long-dead dog or wolf. Larson’s freezer contains 1,500 such drops, and many more are on the way. “It’s truly fantastic the kind of data that he has gathered,” says Savolainen.  p 
 p True to his roots in archaeology, Larson isn’t ignoring the bones. His team photographed the skulls of some 7,000 prehistoric dogs and wolves at 220 angles each, and rebuilt them in virtual space. They can use a technique called  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Morphometrics#Landmark-based_geometric_morphometrics" data-omni-click="r'article',r'',d,r'intext',r'8',r'484976'" geometric morphometrics  a  to see how different features on the skulls have evolved over time.  p 
 p The two lines of evidence—DNA and bones—should either support or refute the double domestication idea. It will also help to clear some confusion over a few peculiar fossils, such as a 36,000 year old skull from Goyet cave in Belgium. Genompré thinks it’s a primitive dog. “It falls outside the variability of wolves: it’s smaller and the snout is different,” she says. Others say it’s too dissimilar to modern dogs. Wayne has suggested that it represents an aborted attempt at domestication—a line of dogs that didn’t contribute to modern populations and is now extinct.  p 
 p Maybe the Goyet hound was part of Larson’s hypothetical Ancient Western group, domesticated shortly after modern humans arrived in Europe. Maybe it represented yet another separate flirtation with domestication. All of these options are on the table, and Larson thinks he has the data to tell them apart. “We can start putting numbers on the difference between dogs and wolves,” he says. “We can say this is what all the wolves at this time period look like; does the Goyet material fall within that realm, or does it look like dogs from later on?”  p 
 p Larson hopes to have the first big answers within six to twelve months. “I think it’ll clearly show that some things can’t be right, and will narrow down the number of hypotheses,” says Boyko. “It may narrow it down to one but I’m not holding my breath on that.” Wayne is more optimistic. “Ancient DNA will provide much more definitive data than we had in the past,” he says. “[Larson] convinced everyone of that. He’s a great diplomat.”  p 
 p Indeed, beyond accumulating DNA and virtual skulls, Larson’s greatest skill is in gathering collaborators. In 2013, he rounded up as many dog researchers as he could and flew them to Aberdeen, so he could get them talking. “I won’t say there was no tension,” he says. “You go into a room with someone who has written something that sort of implies you aren’t doing very good science... there will be tension. But it went away very quickly. And, frankly: alcohol.”  p 
 p “Everyone was like: You know what? If I’m completely wrong and I have to eat crow on this, I don’t give a shit. I just want to know.”  p 
 p class="dek has-dek" 
    After analyzing a viral video depicting the shooting of Walter Scott, a college student finds himself going down the rabbit hole in an obsessive quest for the truth.
  p 
 p class="dek" “Variety doesn’t really matter to me. I would be perfectly happy to eat the same Caesar salad or peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich every day.”  p 
 p Vern Loomis, a retired structural draftsman in West Bloomfield, Michigan, had a standard office lunch: a peanut-butter sandwich, with various fruit, vegetable, and dessert accompaniments. He ate this, he estimates, nearly every workday for about 25 years.  p 
 p His meal underwent slight modifications over time—jelly was added to the sandwich in the final five or so years—but its foundation remained the same. The meal was easy to prepare, cheap, and tasty. “And if you happen to be eating at your desk … it was something that was not too drippy,” he told me, so long as one applied the jelly a bit conservatively.  p 
 p Last year, Loomis retired from his job but not his lunch, which he still eats three or four days a week (now with sliced bananas instead of jelly). “I never stopped liking it,” he says. “I still do.”  p 
 p class="dek" A winning 2020 candidate needs three things: authenticity, credibility, and viability.  p 
 p Few could have predicted President Trump would be this good at surrendering the political advantage of a strong economy. Not only is he now  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com politics 2019 02 22 trump-might-want-keep-closer-eye-texas ?noredirect=on&amp;utm_term=.1699330db59c" underwater  a  in the three states that pushed him to victory in 2016—he’s now unexpectedly vulnerable in places like Texas, Florida, and Ohio as well. His popularity rises to 50 percent or higher in states that total a mere 102 electoral votes. Probably of more concern to his campaign: He’s fallen below 40 percent approval in states encompassing a 201-electoral vote bloc.  p 
 p But Democrats haven’t won the 2020 election yet—and we’ve got a long way to go. At this stage in the 1992 election cycle, President George H.W. Bush was riding high, buoyed by America’s success in the Gulf War. Less than two years later, Bill Clinton moved into the White House. Trump may prove incapable of engineering such a dramatic reversal of fortune. But if the economy continues to hum and he racks up a couple wins on foreign policy, the public’s perception of his presidency could shift. Democrats can’t bank on voters being more dismayed by him than they are enamored of us.     p 
 p class="dek" Americans are consuming more and more stuff. Now that other countries won’t take our papers and plastics, they’re ending up in the trash.    p 
 p After decades of  a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=gLbiwZi1t7w" earnest  a  public-information campaigns, Americans are  a href="https:  www.epa.gov facts-and-figures-about-materials-waste-and-recycling national-overview-facts-and-figures-materials" finally recycling  a . Airports, malls, schools, and office buildings across the country have bins for plastic bottles and aluminum cans and newspapers. In some cities, you can be  a href="https:  www.theatlantic.com business archive 2015 06 recycling-enforcement 396734 "  fined  a  if inspectors discover that you haven’t recycled appropriately.  p 
 p But now much of that carefully sorted recycling is ending up in the trash.  p 
 p For decades, we were sending the bulk of our recycling to China—tons and tons of it, sent over on ships to be made into goods such as shoes and bags and new plastic products.  a href="https:  www.wto.org english news_e news17_e impl_03oct17_e.htm" But last year, the country restricted   a imports of certain recyclables, including mixed paper—magazines, office paper, junk mail—and most plastics. Waste-management companies across the country are telling towns, cities, and counties that there is no longer a market for their recycling. These municipalities have two choices: pay much higher rates to get rid of recycling, or throw it all away.  p 
 p class="dek" A short history of a bad idea.  p 
 p LONDON—The week ahead will be one of the most dramatic in British politics in decades. A sequence of parliamentary votes will decide the future of the British economy—or perhaps plunge it into chaos.  p 
 p The government of Theresa May will one more time resubmit to Parliament an agreement to transition out of the European Union over the next two years. That agreement is widely disliked in Parliament and could well lose again.  p 
 p In that case, Parliament will face the prospect of crashing out of the EU without a deal on March 29, a prospect that terrifies just about everybody.  p 
 p The likeliest alternative then would be a humbling request to the EU for a delay of the March 29 deadline to allow Britain more time to get its act together.  p 
 p class="dek" Typhus, tuberculosis, and other illnesses are spreading quickly through camps and shelters.  p 
 p Jennifer Millar keeps trash bags and hand sanitizer near her tent, and she regularly pours water mixed with hydrogen peroxide on the sidewalk nearby. Keeping herself and the patch of concrete she calls home clean is a top priority.  p 
 p But this homeless encampment off a Hollywood freeway ramp is often littered with needles and trash and soaked in urine. Rats occasionally scamper through, and Millar fears the consequences.  p 
 p “I worry about all those diseases,” said Millar, 43, who has been homeless most of her life.  p 
 p Infectious diseases—some that ravaged populations in the Middle Ages—are resurging in California and around the country, and are hitting homeless populations especially hard.  p 
 p Los Angeles recently experienced an outbreak of typhus—a disease spread by infected fleas on rats and other animals—in downtown streets. Officials briefly closed part of City Hall after reporting that rodents had invaded the building.  p 
 p class="dek" The ancient Eastern religion is helping Westerners with very modern mental-health problems.  p 
 p Dressed in flowing gold robes, the bald female meditation teacher told us to do nothing. We were to sit silently in our plastic chairs, close our eyes, and focus on our breath. I had never meditated, but I’d gone to church, so I instinctively bowed my head. Then I realized, given that this would last for 15 minutes, I should probably find a more comfortable neck position.  p 
 p This was the first of two meditation sessions of the Kadampa Buddhism class I attended this week near my house, in Northern Virginia, and I did not reach nirvana. Because we were in a major city, occasional sirens outside blasted through the quiet, and because this was a church basement, people were laughing and talking in the hallways. One guy wandered in to ask if this was an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. The more we focused on our breath, the teacher assured us, the more these distractions would fade away.  p 
 p class="dek" Economists are trying to understand the steady decline of non-college-educated men in the labor market.  p 
 p dir="ltr" In the late 1960s, almost all prime-working-age men, typically defined as 25 to 54, worked—nearly  a href="https:  fred.stlouisfed.org graph ?id=LREM25MAUSA156N," 95 percent  a . That figure had dipped to 85 percent by 2015—a decline most acutely felt among men without college degrees. The trend of men dropping out of the labor force, particularly non-college-educated men, has been building for more than six decades. It has been a slow withdrawal, but a steady one—a flow that began with a sharp decline in opportunities for men who dropped out of high school, and grew to include those who earned a diploma but not a degree.  p 
 p It’s become something of a ritual to debate the value of a college degree, but as  a href="https:  www.census.gov programs-surveys cps.html" Current Population Survey  a  data show, there has been a sharp decline in employment among non-college-educated men compared with those who have college degrees—or even those who have spent some time in college. As a  a href="https:  edlabor.house.gov imo media doc FINAL%20VALUE%20OF%20COLLEGE%20REPORT.pdf" recent report  a  from the U.S. House Education Committee shows, “Two out of three jobs are filled by individuals who have at least some college education.”  p 
 p class="dek" The science is clear: Indoor vegetation doesn’t significantly remove pollutants from the air.  p 
 p When vine-curious Brooklynites walk into  a href="http:  tula.house" Tula Plants and Design  a —a small houseplant shop in Greenpoint with a vibrant Instagram presence and a profusion of leaves on every available horizontal surface—the employees know what questions to expect.  p 
 p There are two, according to Ariel Ries, an employee at the store. The first is, “Will this plant kill my pet?” The second is, “What kind of plants are best for cleaning the air?”  p 
 p Of all the 1970s trends that have enjoyed a resurgence in recent years—astrology, Fleetwood Mac, and special-counsel investigations among them—few have shown the explosive growth of houseplants and indoor gardening. “More American households are gardening than ever before (77 percent),”  a href="https:  globenewswire.com news-release 2018 04 18 1480986 0 en Gardening-Reaches-an-All-Time-High.html" bragged a recent press release from the National Gardening Survey  a , “and increasingly the gardener is a young man.”  p 
 p class="dek" The HBO documentary provides a detailed exploration of Michael Jackson’s alleged abuses; it also hints at what happens when faith and fandom get blurred.  p 
 p class="dropcap" When  i Leaving Neverland  i  premiered earlier this year at the Sundance Film Festival in Utah, it was greeted with trepidation, fanfare, and also  a href="https:  www.thedailybeast.com leaving-neverland-and-the-twisted-cult-of-michael-jackson-truthers" bomb-sniffing dogs  a . The festival’s organizers were worried that fans of Michael Jackson—not the people who had posters of him in their room growing up, or those who have warm memories of dancing to “Smooth Criminal” at their cousin’s wedding, but those who feel personally protective of Jackson’s legacy—would reject physically what they had already  a href="https:  leavingneverlandfacts.com " rejected epistemically  a : the director Dan Reed’s four-hour-long documentary telling the stories of Jimmy Safechuck and Wade Robson, both of whom have accused Jackson of molesting them when they were boys.  p 
 p The precautions of Park City were overreactions, it would turn out, but they neatly presaged what would take place on Sunday evening, as the first installment of  i Leaving Neverland   i aired on HBO: The  a href="https:  www.thedailybeast.com leaving-neverland-and-the-twisted-cult-of-michael-jackson-truthers" Jackson truthers  a  emerged, this time in ethereal form. The hashtag  a href="https:  twitter.com search?q=mjinnocent&amp;src=typd" #mjinnocent  a  trended on Twitter. Jackson’s estate—which has steadfastly  a href="https:  www.chicagotribune.com entertainment tv ct-ent-michael-jackson-finding-neverland-20190304-story.html" denied  a  the men’s allegations, and which has  a href="https:  deadline.com 2019 02 finding-neverland-lawsuit-michael-jackson-estate-sues-hbo-1202562002 " sued HBO  a  for $100 million for airing the documentary— a href="https:  twitter.com michaeljackson status 1102378126124953600" shared rare video  a  of Jackson in concert. The footage, a vaguely grainy reminder of Jackson the performer at his most dynamic and compelling and ingenious, is, in all, two hours long, the  a href="https:  www.washingtonpost.com nation 2019 03 04 michael-jacksons-estate-promotes-old-concert-videos-leaving-neverland-airs-assault-claims ?utm_term=.88456d2304c0" precise length  a  of  i Leaving Neverland  i ’s first episode. The estate’s implication is clear: Michael Jackson was a superstar, and superstardom is its own defense.  p 
 p class="dek" The weirdly hopeful story of how the U.S. came to be a leader in tax compliance  p 
 p class="dropcap" I span class="smallcaps" f such a thing   span as American exceptionalism remains, maybe it can be found in this: Despite deep IRS budget cuts, an average audit rate that has plunged in recent years to just 0.6 percent, and a president who has bragged that dodging federal taxes is “smart,” most Americans still pay their income taxes every year. Even more remarkable, most of us feel  i obliged  i  to pay. To quote the findings of a 2017 IRS survey: “The majority of Americans (88%) say it is not at all acceptable to cheat on taxes; this ethical attitude is not changing over time.”  p 
 p True, tax crooks might not confess their real feelings in an IRS survey. But other data confirm that the U.S. is among the world’s leaders when it comes to what economists call the voluntary compliance rate (VCR). In recent decades, America’s VCR has consistently hovered between 81 and 84 percent. Most countries don’t calculate their VCR regularly, but when they do, they lag behind the U.S. One paper that gathered what comparative data were available reported that Germany, the top European Union economy, had a VCR of 68 percent.  p 
 p class="dek" After analyzing a viral video depicting the shooting of Walter Scott, a college student finds himself going down the rabbit hole in an obsessive quest for the truth.  p 
 p class="dek" A man who was wrongfully imprisoned for 40 years shares how he maintained his identity.  p 
 p class="dek" Andrew Wyeth’s longtime muse recalls her spiritual relationship with the artist, which resulted in more than 250 paintings.  p 
 p class="c-footer__copyright" TheAtlantic.com Copyright (c) 2019 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.  p 
 p class="c-footer__logo"  a class="c-logo" href=" "  span class="u-element-invisible c-logo__name" The Atlantic  span   svg class="o-icon" viewbox="0 0 256 84"  use xlink:href="#icon-logo-atl"   use   svg   a   p 
