 p (This will open in a new window)   p 
 p We want you to have a great visit with us. Please be aware of our terms and conditions before booking:  p 
 p  strong - Online tickets must be purchased at least 1 day in advance of the intended visit date  strong   p 
 p - Tickets are non-refundable and non-transferable.  p 
 p - There is no additional charge to view the polar bear  p 
 p - With the exception of fully trained guide dogs, no dogs or pets are allowed in the Park. For more information including nearby kennel facilities please  a data-id="1250" href=" plan-your-visit day-planner tickets-and-prices " title="Tickets and Prices" click here  a .  p 
 p - We cannot guarantee that any of our animals will be on show at any one time.  p 
 p - In extreme weather conditions we may have to close the Park.  p 
 p - Online ticket purchasers are reminded that for operational, technical, safety or animal welfare reasons any advertised exhibit or attraction or any of the onsite facilities may be closed, removed, altered or otherwise unavailable at any time. the Highland Wildlife Park reserves the right to alter or cancel any presentation or feeding time without notice if required.  p 
 p - On busy days, visitors to the Park will be guided to park in a particular order so as to maximise available space on site  p 
 p - Before booking please review our  a data-id="11494" href=" plan-your-visit day-planner highland-wildlife-park-entry-terms-and-conditions " title="Highland Wildlife Park Entry Terms and Conditions" full terms and conditions  a .  p 
 p Choose a Webcam  p 
 p Book Tickets  span Book online today!  span   p 
 p Day planner  span Start planning your trip today!  span   p 
 p class="sub-text" 
                        Make the most of your photography with one of our photographic days.
                      p 
 p class="title arrow-wht" Photographic Days  p 
 p Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences?  p 
 p How to book  span Information to help you start planning your educational visit.  span   p 
 p Sponsorship Opportunities  span No two sponsorship packages are the same so we work with our sponsors to create a partnership that best suits their business needs.  span   p 
 p Corporate Support  span Help us make a difference   span   p 
 p Save up to 20% when you book Online  p 
 p 
                 span EUROPEAN GREY WOLF  span 
              p 
 p class="bold" 
                Canis lupus lupus
              p 
 p  strong In our collection  strong   p 
 p We are currently home to one male wolf called Jax who arrived at the Park from Jarvzoo in April 2015 and one female wolf called Ruby who was born at the Park in 2012. In June 2016, Ruby gave birth to a litter of six cubs and on 21 May 2017 Ruby gave birth to a litter of eight pups  p 
 p  strong Where to see them  strong   p 
 p Our wolves can be seen in Wolf Wood which is located at the far end of the car park near the entrance reserve.   p 
 p  span Wolf Wood was opened by Princess Anne on the 8th of September 2010   span   p 
 p  strong Threats and Conservation  strong   p 
 p The European grey wolf used to be found throughout much of the northern hemisphere, however today it has a more restricted distribution, although it is starting to expand its range within western Europe. They can be found in a variety of habitats including forests &amp; mountains.  p 
 p Previously the grey wolf has suffered many years of hunting and trapping for its fur, which has reduced its population. In recent years’ legal protection and land use change has helped some populations to recover. However, some subspecies and regional populations are still at risk as a result of habitat loss and fragmentation.  p 
 p As a result of the various countries the grey wolf is found in, conservation action and protection is greatly varied.  p 
 p  strong Least Concern  strong   p 
 p class="meta" For more info on classifications visit  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org" www.iucnredist.org  a   p 
 p class=" sub-fact" 
                                                Mountain regions
                                              p 
 p class=" sub-fact" 
                                                Forest and woodlands
                                              p 
 p The grey wolf ( em Canis lupus  em ) is the world’s largest wild canid. In appearance, they resemble a large domestic dog, but they have longer legs, larger feet, a narrower chest and a straight tail. They have thick fur, which has an outer layer made up of coarse guard hairs, with a soft undercoat below. Their coat is generally grey in colour with black flecks and lighter underparts. However different populations can exhibit different colour variations. They also have very sensitive ears and nose to help track down prey.  p 
 p Wolves are highly intelligent animals with a complex social structure. Almost all pack members are related and this blood tie makes it profitable for the animals to work co-operatively. Pack size is restricted by the size and abundance of food as well as habitat. A fierce hierarchy exists between pack members and breeding only takes place between the alpha male and alpha female (the highest ranking male and female). Should one of the alpha pair die, chaos ensues in the pack as the original hierarchy breaks down and another evolves.  p 
 p Wolves well down the hierarchy will show submissive behaviour to other pack members. This is characterised by a cringing posture with the tail between the legs. A dominant animal will hold its tail high and will not be usurped by any other member of the pack.  p 
 p Grey wolves have a varied diet, including reindeer, red deer, elk and wild boar, however smaller animals, livestock, carrion and berries may also be eaten. All pack members participate in hunting and prey is usually pursued in a chase which can last between 100 metres and 5 kilometres. They have keen observational skills to help them identify the individuals that are young, old or in poor health.  p 
 p Breeding season normally occurs between January and April, and normally only the dominant pair will breed. The female will give birth to a litter of 1 to 11 cubs (typically 6) after a gestation period of 9 weeks. The cubs are raised in a den for the first 8 to 10 weeks. By the next breeding season the oldest offspring from two to three years before will leave the pack and disperse.  p 
 p Receive our latest offers, stories &amp; event news, direct to your inbox  p 
 p THE ROYAL ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND  p 
 p style="color: #A4A4A4;" 
                            Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.
                             br 
                             Registered charity number: SC004064
                          p 
 p Our chosen digital agency is  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.radiatordigital.com " Radiator Digital  a   p 
