 p 
          a href="http:  www.environment.gov.au biodiversity wildlife-trade live import-list hybrid-animals" Domestic non domestic hybrids  a  cannot be imported to Australia in accordance with the 
          em Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999  em . Hybrid cats include, but are not limited to:  p 
 p Please contact the Department of the Environment and Energy on +61 2 6274 2678 or email 
          a href="mailto:exotic.species@environment.gov.au" Exotic Species  a  for more information.  p 
 p When  submitting an application to import to the Department of Agriculture and Water  Resources, you must state the breed of your cat and sign a declaration stating  that it is not an ineligible breed.   p 
 p The following  pure breeds cannot be imported into Australia under the legislation of the Department  of Home Affairs :  p 
 p Please contact  the Department of Home Affairs  on +61 2 6264 1111 or 131 881 (within Australia)  for more information. br  Domestic non  domestic hybrids (e.g. dog-wolf crosses) are also prohibited. This includes,  but is not limited to:  p 
 p Please contact the Department of the Environment and Energy on +61 2 6274 2678 or email 
          a href="mailto:exotic.species@environment.gov.au" Exotic Species  a  for more information.  p 
 p When  submitting an application to import to the Department of Agriculture and Water  Resources, you must state the breed of your dog and sign a declaration stating  that it is not an ineligible breed.  p 
 p No. An import permit will not be refused based on an animal’s age. Please  seek advice from your veterinarian if you’re concerned about the animal’s age  and how they may handle the journey and quarantine in Australia. Your  veterinarian can advise if you need to change the animal’s care to prepare them  for travel.  p 
 p         Older cats and dogs may be more likely to dehydrate on long flights. Dehydration  can have severe adverse effects such as renal failure.  p 
 p         You can provide food and water in the transport crate for the journey to  Australia. Discuss the best way to do this with the airline and your  veterinarian. Depending on the containers you use, you may need to train your  animal to use them before departure (e.g. dripping water dispensers). Any food  arriving with your animal will be destroyed in Australia.  p 
 p         If you’re concerned about how your animal will handle the trip, arrange for  them to arrive in Australia early in the week. This will help staff settle them  into their accommodation and, if required, arrange early veterinary attention.  p 
 p       Provide the quarantine facility with any special information they may need  to care for your animal.  p 
 p Yes, provided the animal meets all Australian import conditions. Discuss  your animal’s ability to cope with travel and quarantine with their  veterinarian before deciding to send them to Australia.  p 
 p You must inform the department if your cat or dog has any medical conditions when you apply for an import permit. The veterinary medical form 
          img src=" SiteCollectionImages common pdf.gif" alt="Portable document format icon" 
          a href=" SiteCollectionDocuments cats-dogs veterinary-medical-form.pdf" PDF [352 KB]  a  img src=" SiteCollectionImages common msword.gif" alt="Microsoft word icon"  a href=" SiteCollectionDocuments cats-dogs veterinary-medical-form.docx" target="_blank" Word [40 KB]  a  must be completed by your veterinarian and submitted with the import permit application.  p 
 p If your cat or  dog has been diagnosed with a medical condition after the import permit has  been granted, please notify the department as soon as possible. This will ensure   your animal’s  welfare and medical requirements  are  met while in our care. Additional fees may be charged if your  animal requires a higher level of  care.  p 
 p An approved country is any country, administrative region or territory from which Australia allows the import of cats and dogs and their semen. Approved countries are divided into three groups, each with different import conditions. The 
          a href=" cats-dogs frequently-asked-questions glossary-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" glossary of terms  a  lists the countries in each group.  p 
 p  Approved countries have adequate animal health services and a satisfactory animal health status. This provides a high level of assurance in the treatment, management and health status of cats and dogs being imported to Australia.  p 
 p Preparations depend on the recognised rabies status of the country of export.  p 
 p You can import your cat or dog to Australia via an approved group 2 or 3  country. Moving your animal(s) to another country will also require you to meet  that country's import conditions. Discuss your plan with your approved group 2  or 3 exporting country of choice.  p 
 p You must  apply for an Australian import permit  for your animal and the  animal  must meet all Australian  import conditions  from the approved exporting country.  p 
 p         Please  read our non-approved country via group 2 or 3 country step-by-step guide for 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3cats" cats  a  or 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3dogs" dogs  a  for more information.  p 
 p Yes. As long as the 
          a href=" cats-dogs frequently-asked-questions glossary-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" Official Government Veterinarian  a  who will sign and stamp the Veterinary Health Certificate in the country of export is prepared to accept and approve the testing, treatments or examinations performed in another approved country.  p 
 p It can take up to 20 business days. The department processes each application as soon as possible from the date of submission.  p 
 p  If your application is incomplete, processing will be delayed until the department receives all required information.  p 
 p Your animal must be implanted with a microchip that can be read by Avid,  Trovan, Destron or an ISO compatible microchip reader. Most microchip numbers  are 9, 10 or 15 digits long.  p 
 p         Microchip numbers starting with 999 are not acceptable because they are not  unique.  p 
 p         Microchips are the only approved identification method. Your cat or dog  should be scanned at each visit to the veterinarian and must be scanned before  any pre-export blood sampling.  p 
 p         If the microchip cannot be read or found in Australia, or the microchip  number is inconsistent on any import paperwork, your cat or dog may be exported  from Australia.  p 
 p  You may send a microchip scanner with  the animal to ensure that  its  microchip can be scanned and verified upon arrival in Australia.  p 
 p Both microchip numbers must be included on the import permit application, laboratory reports and the final import permit. Both microchips should be scanned at each veterinary visit to ensure they match all import documentation.  p 
 p The veterinarian should use multiple microchip scanners to try to read the microchip in the animal. An x-ray may be conducted to locate the microchip in case it has moved from the implant site.  p 
 p  If the microchip still cannot be read, a new microchip must be implanted and the pre-export process, including all testing, treatments and examinations, must begin again.  p 
 p Your cat or dog must arrive in Australia with a microchip that can be  scanned and linked to the import permit and any accompanying laboratory  reports. If the microchip cannot be scanned in Australia, or the microchip  number is inconsistent on any import paperwork, your cat or dog may be exported  from Australia.  p 
 p No, but the department encourages importers to use a pet transport agent as it may be simpler and more effective than undertaking the process yourself. You can find a pet transport agent pet shipper by entering the terms “import dog to Australia” or “import cat to Australia” into a search engine, or visiting the 
          a href="https:  www.ipata.org find-ipata-pet-shippers" International Pet and Animal Transportation Association (IPATA) website  a .  p 
 p  The department is impartial and cannot recommend one agent over another.  p 
 p The department recommends that you only send copies when you apply for an import permit.  p 
 p Original  documents must be signed and stamped by an 
          a href=" cats-dogs frequently-asked-questions glossary-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" official government veterinarian  a  and must travel with your animal to  Australia. Copies of the documents can be used, but they must  bear the original signature of the 
          a href=" cats-dogs frequently-asked-questions glossary-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" official  government veterinarian  a  and stamp of the  competent authority on every page.  p 
 p The department has developed a 
          a href=" cats-dogs" date calculator  a  to show importers the minimum, maximum and recommended preparation times required for their cat or dog to meet the import conditions. The date calculator will link you to your relevant step by step guide. If your country of export is not in the date calculator, see the non-approved country via group 2 or 3 country step by step guide for 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3cats" cats  a  or 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3dogs" dogs  a .  p 
 p  Please discuss treatments and tests with a 
          a href=" cats-dogs frequently-asked-questions glossary-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" government approved veterinarian  a  in your country of export. br    p 
 p The Department of Agriculture and Water Resources does not approve laboratories for rabies antibody testing. The government veterinary service in the country of export approves the laboratory.  p 
 p  The only time the department lists laboratories approved to do rabies antibody testing is when the cat or dog starts preparations in a non-approved country. In this case, the laboratory performing the initial rabies antibody testing must be either the 
          a href="https:  www.csiro.au en Research Facilities AAHL Diagnostic-services-and-emergency-response Quarantine-testing-of-companion-animals" target="_blank" Australian Animal Health Laboratory  a  or one of the OIE rabies reference laboratories listed  in the non-approved  country via group 2 or 3 country step by step guide for 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3cats" cats  a  or 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides nac-cat2and3dogs" dogs  a .  p 
 p It can take up to 180 days for an animal infected with the rabies virus to show signs of the disease. During this time there is no reliable way to tell if the animal has been infected.  p 
 p  When the rabies virus enters an animal it moves into the nervous tissue where antibodies can’t destroy it. There is no test that can reliably detect if the virus is hiding in a live animal’s nervous tissue. The only way to tell if an animal has the rabies virus is to observe it for at least 180 days to see if it develops clinical rabies. It can take this long for rabies to show itself in an infected animal. Australia is free from rabies and considering the potential severe consequences from the introduction of rabies, we take a conservative approach to preventing the entry of this disease.  p 
 p  The import of cats and dogs from rabies-endemic countries is one of the highest risk pathways for rabies to enter Australia. For this reason, our import conditions require cats and dogs entering from rabies-endemic countries to be vaccinated against rabies and show proven immunity to the disease for at least 180 days before entry. A rabies antibody titre level of 0.5IU mL or above is internationally recognised as providing effective immunity against rabies in cats and dogs.  p 
 p The  only circumstance where the department will consider an exemption is  where the cat or dog has had a rabies neutralising  antibody titre test (RNATT) with an acceptable result of 0.5IU ml or more 
          strong before  leaving Australia  strong , and is due to return to Australia within 24 months from  the date a blood sample  was collected  for that RNATT test.  p 
 p       The  department will not  grant exemptions  for any other circumstances. This is  an essential part of our risk management and cannot be waived.  p 
 p Email the 
          a href="mailto:imports@agriculture.gov.au" Animal and Biological Import Assessments Branch  a  and indicate which import condition your cat or dog can’t meet and the reason why. You will need to suggest an alternative import condition and explain how the suggested alternative will provide a comparable level of risk management.  p 
 p  You should contact the department well in advance before submitting your import permit application.  p 
 p  In some cases, an equivalent or alternative import condition can be applied. But there are many cases where the suggested equivalent or alternative conditions are not suitable.  p 
 p An acceptable 
          a href=" cats-dogs step-by-step-guides parasite-treatment" external parasite treatment  a  is a product that kills ticks and fleas on contact. Oral products (such as NexGard and Bravecto) are 
          strong not  strong  accepted because they require the tick or flea to bite the animal before they are affected by the product. Tick collars are not accepted because they can be removed from the animal and their effectiveness is reduced in some weather conditions.  p 
 p See 
          a href=" cats-dogs fees-for-cat-and-dog-import-permit-applications" cat and dog import permit application fees  a  and government animal 
          a href=" cats-dogs quarantine-facilities-and-fees fees-for-government-animal-quarantine-faciltities" quarantine station fees  a . The minimum cost to import one cat or dog that undergoes the minimum 10 days quarantine is $2000.  p 
 p There may be additional fees if the cat or dog needs extra parasite  treatments, veterinary care, an extended stay in quarantine or other services including testing where  there is suspicion that the cat or dog may be harboring a disease  of biosecurity concern. There are also transport costs charged by the airline that the  department has no control over.  p 
 p  Fees are subject to change. It is the client's responsibility to check our website for information on updates or amendments to fees, policies and procedures.  p 
 p  Partial payment for your animal’s quarantine accommodation is due at the time of booking.  p 
 p Yes. Cats and dogs must arrive 
          strong directly  strong  into Melbourne International Airport where we will transfer them to the post entry quarantine facility. They cannot land in another Australian airport and travel to Melbourne on an Australian domestic flight.  p 
 p No. Your cat or dog must travel to Australia as manifest cargo. Manifest cargo allows for traceability of your cat or dog.  p 
 p  Eligible 
          a href=" cats-dogs assistance-dogs" assistance dogs  a  may be exempt from this condition, and many airlines allow them to travel in the cabin.  p 
 p The 
          a href="http:  www.iata.org whatwedo cargo live-animals pets Pages index.aspx" International Air Transport Association  a  (IATA) regulations do not recommend sedating or tranquilising pets for transport as it can be dangerous to their health. Drugs act differently at the pressure of 8,000 feet above sea level, which is the approximate air pressure in an aircraft during flight.  p 
 p Get an 
          a href="http:  www.iata.org whatwedo cargo live-animals pets Pages index.aspx" title="Not linking to a non-government website." International Air Transport Association (IATA) approved crate  a  for cats or dogs. The crate must meet IATA standards to ensure your animal’s safety. Crates that are too small, low or narrow may harm your animal.  p 
 p  Buy the travel crate well in advance and get your cat or dog used to it before the flight by putting his her bedding and food in it. br  Provide enough absorbent bedding to keep your cat or dog dry and comfortable during the flight. You can buy a ‘dry-bed’ type blanket such as those used in veterinary clinics, or a baby’s cot liner. The department does not recommend using newspaper instead of bedding. Crate bedding is generally soiled and will be destroyed on arrival due to biosecurity risk.  p 
 p  Ensure that a water container is fixed inside the crate, with an external funnel and hose. The people handling your cat or dog can then top-up the water from outside, as the crate cannot be opened after it is sealed by authorities in the country of export.  p 
 p  Make sure that your cat or dog knows how to drink from the water container before the flight, especially if you are using a ‘dripper’ type water bottle.  p 
 p See 
          a href=" cats-dogs cats-dogs-vessels" animals on vessels  a  for information on bringing your pet to Australia onboard an international vessel.  p 
 p No. Cats and dogs can only undertake post entry quarantine at the Mickleham post entry quarantine facility in Melbourne.  p 
 p All cats and dogs must stay at the Mickleham post entry quarantine facility in Melbourne for at least 10 days. They will have to stay longer if there are issues that increase the biosecurity risk (for example, if a tick is found on your dog, it will need to stay for 21-30+ days until blood testing is repeated at your cost).  p 
 p Yes. Even if your cat or dog was born in Australia, it may be exposed to exotic diseases when travelling overseas. Your cat or dog must meet all the department’s import conditions for the relevant country of export in order to return to Australia. See 
          a href=" cats-dogs cats-dogs-returning-to-australia" cats and dogs returning to Australia  a .  p 
 p No. You can only book quarantine accommodation once you have your import permit. You must provide a valid permit number when booking your animal into quarantine.  p 
 p You can create a booking request by using the department’s 
          a href="https:  online.agriculture.gov.au webcenter portal peq;jsessionid=yIYEFcrkF5EBh8KyYX_mmM-U45DiQYVQrY-48snGj16OwlIsQmfv!1910759860!-1137711529?_afrLoop=13277428136451378#%21%40%40?_afrLoop%3D13277428136451378%26_adf.ctrl-state%3D1aggpkgy97_4" target="_blank" Post Entry Biosecurity System  a . Alternatively, you can  contact the Mickleham post entry quarantine facility via 
          a href="mailto:PEQservices@agriculture.gov.au" email  a  or phone 1800 900 090 or +61 3 8318 6700 (outside  Australia) as soon as you receive your import permit.  p 
 p There may be a  lot of clients trying to book quarantine and it may not be possible to meet all  requests. An import permit does not guarantee a place at the quarantine  facility for  your requested date.  p 
 p  You have to pay part of the 
          a href=" cats-dogs quarantine-facilities-and-fees fees-for-government-animal-quarantine-faciltities" quarantine fee  a  when you make your booking. Bookings will not be kept unless you pay.  p 
 p The department recommends that you register your cat or dog with a national microchip registry in Australia. It is the pet owner importer’s responsibility to contact their local Australian council regarding animal registration, microchip registration and any other legal requirements. Your local veterinary hospital or animal shelter may be able to assist you.  p 
 p  The department does not have any involvement with local council and national microchip registration databases.  p 
 p  Updates will be posted on our website, so please refer back frequently.  p 
 p  If you have read the information on our website and have further questions which have not been addressed, you can contact us via 
       a href="mailto:imports@agriculture.gov.au" email  a  or phone 1800 900 090 (within Australia) or +61 3 8318 6700 (outside Australia).  p 
 p Links to other websites are inserted for convenience and do not constitute endorsement by the department of material at those sites, or any associated organisation, product or service.  p 
 p Before relying on the material in any important matter, users should carefully evaluate its accuracy, currency, completeness and relevance for their purposes, and should obtain any appropriate professional advice relevant to their particular circumstances.  p 
