 p Advertisement  p 
 p class="byline-dateline"  span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org Person" itemid="https:  www.nytimes.com by john-f-burns" By  a href="https:  www.nytimes.com by john-f-burns" title="More Articles by JOHN F. BURNS"  span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="JOHN F. BURNS" itemprop="name" JOHN F. BURNS  span   a   span  time class="dateline" datetime="1996-09-01T01:00:00-04:00" itemprop="dateModified" content="1996-09-01T01:00:00-04:00" SEPT. 1, 1996  time 
  p 
 p class="message-content" 
            This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. 
            To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them.
          p 
 p class="message-content" 
            Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems.
            Please send reports of such problems to  a href="mailto:archive_feedback@nytimes.com" archive_feedback@nytimes.com.  a 
          p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="143" data-total-count="143" When the man-eating wolf came to this tranquil village toward dusk on an evening in mid-August, it was every child's worst nightmare come true.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="393" data-total-count="536" The wolf pounced while Urmila Devi and three of her eight children were in a grassy clearing at the edge of the village, using the open ground for a toilet. The animal, about 100 pounds of coiled sinew and muscle, seized the smallest child, a 4-year-old boy named Anand Kumar, and carried him by the neck into the luxuriant stands of corn and elephant grass that stretch to a nearby riverbank.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="459" data-total-count="995" When a police search party found the boy three days later, half a mile away, all that remained was his head. From the claw and tooth marks, pathologists confirmed he had been killed by a wolf -- probably one of a pack that conservationists believe has been roaming this area, driven to killing small children by hunger or by something else that has upset the natural instinct of wolves to avoid humans, like thrill-seeking villagers stealing cubs from a lair.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="483" data-total-count="1478" It has been more than a century since India faced the threat of man-eating wolves on anything like the scale now terrorizing this region of  Uttar Pradesh state. Since the first killing five months ago, 33 children have been carried off and killed by wolves, according to police figures; 20 others have been seriously mauled along this stretch of the Ganges River basin, 350 miles from New Delhi. A hunt by thousands of villagers and police officers has killed only 10 wolves so far.  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="310" data-total-count="1788" id="story-continues-1" With new attacks each week, hysteria is sweeping the area of the killings, a terrain of lush fields interlaced with rivers and ravines that reaches about 60 miles north to south and about 40 miles across. More than nine million people live in the region in some of the harshest poverty found anywhere in India.  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="378" data-total-count="2166" id="story-continues-3" A frenzy of rumors has put the blame for the killings not on wolves but on werewolves, the half-man, half-wolf creatures that have stalked their way through folklore for about as long as human societies have existed. Other rumors have put the blame for the killings on infiltrators from Pakistan, who are said to have dressed up as wolves. Pakistan is India's traditional enemy.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="175" data-total-count="2341" Villagers have turned against strangers, and sometimes against one another, in lynchings that have killed at least 20 people and prompted the authorities to arrest 150 people.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="457" data-total-count="2798" ''It's the worst wolf menace anywhere in the world in at least 100 years,'' said Ram Lakhan Singh, the animal conservationist chosen to lead an effort to kill wolves suspected of attacking humans. The hunt involves thousands of villagers and police officers armed with bamboo staves and 12-gauge shotguns. But nobody can be sure that any of the wolves shot so far were part of the pack that Mr. Singh and other experts believe is responsible for the deaths.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="294" data-total-count="3092" Matters are still far from the disaster of 1878, when British officials in this area recorded 624 human killings by wolves. But fear is pervasive. Men stay awake all night, keeping vigil with antique rifles and staves. Mothers keep children from the fields, and infants are kept inside all day.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="199" data-total-count="3291" In the dark interiors of stark brick homes made clammy by the monsoons, fantastical stories are told, sweeping aside all attempts by officials to convince villagers that the killers have been wolves.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="300" data-total-count="3591" ''It came across the grass on all four paws, like this,'' said Sita Devi, 10, the sister of the boy killed by a wolf in Banbirpur on Aug. 16, as she moved forward in a crouch from a cluster of villagers gathered by a well. She told her story with tears in her eyes, to anxious murmurs from the crowd.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="180" data-total-count="3771" ''As it grabbed Anand, it rose onto two legs until it was tall as a man,'' she said. ''Then it threw him over its shoulder. It was wearing a black coat, and a helmet and goggles.''  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="299" data-total-count="4070" id="story-continues-4" The girl's grandfather Ram Lakhan Panday, who drove a truck in Calcutta for 50 years before retiring to his native village, said: ''As long as officials pressure us to say it was a wolf, we'll say it was a wolf. But we have seen this thing with our own eyes. It is not a wolf; it is a human being.''  p 
 p class="error captcha-error hidden" Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.  p 
 p class="error invalid-email-error hidden" Invalid email address. Please re-enter.  p 
 p class="error buffet-error hidden" You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.  p 
 p class="view-all-link hidden"  a href=" newsletters" target="_blank" View all New York Times newsletters.  a   p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="535" data-total-count="4605" Nearly half of India's 930 million people are illiterate, and the ratio is higher in villages like Banbirpur. Many men head off to Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta in search of menial jobs, but living in slums among others much like themselves, they learn little to allay the superstitions of village life. In the case of wolves, these are compounded by fairy tales told to children -- Indian versions of ''Little Red Riding Hood'' -- in which wolves, and werewolves, are represented as among the most cunning and dangerous of all creatures.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="468" data-total-count="5073" As a saffron sunset settled into night this week, Mr. Singh, the animal conservationist, met with other officials on the veranda of a rain-stained bungalow at Manjanpur, another village hit by a wolf killing, and pored over hand-drawn maps. Tracing his finger over dotted lines connecting red triangles, denoting wolf killings, and blue circles, denoting maulings by the wolves, Mr. Singh showed why he believed that a single wolf pack was responsible for the attacks.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="155" data-total-count="5228" ''There has never been more than one attack on a single day, and the same village has never been attacked twice,'' he said. ''This cannot be coincidence.''  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="229" data-total-count="5457" Speaking by the light of a kerosene lamp, Mr. Singh said studies in India, some going back a century and more, showed that wolves could cover 40 to 50 miles in a day. ''So we seem to be dealing here with a single pack,'' he said.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="371" data-total-count="5828" From villagers' accounts, most attacks have occurred between midnight and 4 A.M. Because of the stifling heat and cramped village homes, many women sleep outside on latticed cots called charpoys, infants beside them, making inviting targets for the wolves. In other cases, marks on dirt floors have shown how wolves have crept through doorways and carried off their prey.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="403" data-total-count="6231" Mr. Singh is convinced that the most likely cause for the attacks is hunger. For five years in the 1980's, Mr. Singh was director of India's troubled effort to save its diminishing stock of tigers, and that experience showed him how India's fast-growing population, competing with wild animals for land and resources, had driven some species, including tigers, to desperation in the struggle to survive.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="634" data-total-count="6865" In the early 1970's, India expanded its animal sanctuaries to a total of more than 60,000 square miles, about 5 percent of the country's area, and adopted a far-reaching wildlife protection statute. Tigers were on the list, as were wolves. But while the number of tigers continued to plunge, with many poached to feed the market for tiger parts elsewhere in Asia, wolf populations soared. Mr. Singh, directing the effort here to hunt the wolves, believes the growing numbers have now outstripped the habitat available to support the wolves, at least in eastern Uttar Pradesh, causing some of the hungrier animals to become man-eaters.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="504" data-total-count="7369" At the meeting in Manjanpur, Mr. Singh drafted plans to have hunters patrol hundreds of square miles along riverbanks in the area known to be the favored spot for wolves' lairs. In addition, a bounty of 10,000 rupees (about $285), more than many families earn in a year, will be offered for every dead wolf brought in by villagers. A century ago, when the British offered a 5-rupee bounty, similar methods led to the slaying of nearly 2,600 wolves, and brought an end to the wolf killings in nine months.  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="277" data-total-count="7646" id="story-continues-5" Some Indian conservationists worry that a similar campaign this time -- especially if it is repeated elsewhere across India, where isolated incidents of wolves killing children have occurred -- could lead to wolves becoming extinct. But Mr. Singh has no patience for this view.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="284" data-total-count="7930" ''Crime and punishment applies to every living thing, humans and animals,'' he said. ''The wolves have to learn that they cannot live next to human beings and misbehave. If they do, they must be killed.'' Then he pronounced what sounded like a death sentence for the wolf in the wild.  p 
 p class="story-body-text story-content" data-para-count="221" data-total-count="8151" ''Enough care has been taken for these animals,'' he said. ''We simply cannot have carnivores roaming around densely populated areas anymore. If India is going to save the wolf, it is going to have to be in sanctuaries.''  p 
 p class="story-print-citation" A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1996, on Page 1001001 of the  span itemprop="printEdition" National edition  span  with the headline: In India, Attacks by Wolves Spark Old Fears and Hatreds.  span class="story-footer-links"    span  a href="http:  www.nytreprints.com " target="_blank" Order Reprints  a  span class="pipe" |  span   span    span  a href="http:  www.nytimes.com pages todayspaper index.html" target="_blank" Today's Paper  a  span class="pipe" |  span   span  span  a href="http:  www.nytimes.com subscriptions Multiproduct lp839RF.html?campaignId=48JQY" target="_blank" Subscribe  a   span 
  span 
  p 
 p class="user-action"  a href="https:  www.nytimes.com " Go to Home Page »  a   p 
