 p Until the mid-19th century, there were large populations of the four large carnivores; brown bear ( em Ursus arctus  em ), wolverine ( em Gulo gulo  em ), wolf ( em Canis lupis  em ) and lynx ( em Lynx lynx  em ), throughout much of Norway. All four species were hunted relentlessly. As a result, wolves and bears were almost exterminated by the mid-20th century. Since then, their populations have shown signs of recovery.  p 
 p Most of Norway's large carnivores belong to populations that we share with neighbouring countries. The populations of large carnivores have increased slowly since the mid-20th century when they were almost extinct. Wolverine and bear populations started to rise in parts of the country from the late 1970s, lynx in the 1950s and wolves in the 1990s.  p 
 p More research and improved monitoring of the populations have given us more information on population sizes and on the biology of these species. Read more about Norway's large carnivores:  p 
 p class="figcaption" The map shows management areas for bear (brown area), lynx (green area), wolverine (blue area) and wolf (red area). You can zoome in to explore further.  p 
 p Wolves and bears were protected throughout Norway in 1971 and 1973 respectively. Wolverines were designated as a protected species in southern and central Norway from 1973 and in the rest of the country from 1982.  p 
 p Norwegian large carnivore management aims to maintain viable populations of the four large carnivores while also maintaining an active agricultural sector, including opportunities to use uncultivated land for grazing by sheep and reindeer. The Norwegian Parliament (Stortinget) has also agreed to these recommendations. Steps to reduce conflicts between livestock and large predators are therefore very important.  p 
 p In order to achieve the goals both for the large carnivores and for agriculture, the management regime varies from one area to another, whereby agriculture is prioritized in some districts and the large carnivores in others. Close contact with the local authorities and other stakeholders is very important.  p 
 p The Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats applies to all four of the large carnivores – wolverine, lynx, bear and wolf. The wolverine, bear and wolf are included in Appendix II, which lists strictly protected species, and the lynx in Appendix III, which lists protected species.  p 
 p The wolf, bear and lynx are also included in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). This Appendix lists species in which trade may be permitted but must be strictly regulated.  p 
 p Around 150 years ago, there were 4000–5000 brown bears in Scandinavia, roughly 3000 of them in Norway. Bears were ruthlessly hunted in both Norway and Sweden in the early 20th century, and almost exterminated. Today, the stronghold of bears in Norway is along the border with Sweden, Finland and Russia.  p 
 p  label id="heading1" State  label   p 
 p Norway’s national target is for 13 bear litters to be born each year in Norway. It is estimated that in 2017, only seven litters were born.  p 
 p It is difficult to register bear cubs in the field, because females with cubs do not leave the winter den until late in spring, often after the spring thaw. This means that they cannot be registered by tracking them in the snow. In addition, it is often difficult to determine whether cubs were born in the current year or the year before, since they may not be very different in size. DNA analysis of bear scat and hair samples is therefore used to estimate the number of litters.  p 
 p It has proved to be difficult to obtain reliable figures for the number of bears in Norway. They spend most of the winter in hibernation, so that tracking them in the snow is not a suitable way of registering numbers.  p 
 p In 2006, collection of bear scat for DNA analysis was started in a project involving moose hunters and the Norwegian Nature Inspectorate. From 2009, scat and hair samples have been collected every year from all parts of Norway.  p 
 p In 2017, DNA analysis showed that there were at least 125 bears in Norway, 55 females and 70 males. These are minimum figures, since we cannot assume that every single animal was registered. However, systematic sampling repeated over several years gives a very good picture of the Norwegian bear population.  p 
 p The bears living in Norway today are considered to belong to two different populations. Bears in Finnmark belong to the Norwegian-Finnish-Russian population, while those in other parts of the country belong to a joint Scandinavian population.  p 
 p Most bears are found in a zone along the border with Sweden, Finland and Russia, but young  male bears roam very widely and may turn up almost anywhere in mainland Norway.  p 
 p  label id="heading2" Pressure  label   p 
 p Between 1850 and 1860, 200–300 bears were shot every year in Norway. They were relentlessly hunted in both Norway and Sweden, and were almost extinct in most of the region by the early part of the 20th century. A bounty system was maintained in Norway until 1932.  p 
 p Today, the population is regulated by culling by licensed hunters. This is done to reduce livestock damage. When a cull is authorised, the bear quota is set at a level designed to maintain a viable population. The authorities may also authorise culling of a specific problem bear to prevent damage to livestock or domestic reindeer.  p 
 p  label id="heading3" Response  label   p 
 p In 1932, Norway introduced legal protection for hibernating bears, and in 1973, this was extended to give year-round protection.  p 
 p The Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats applies to the brown bear. The species is included in Appendix II, which lists strictly protected animal species. It is also included in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). This Appendix lists species in which trade may be permitted but must be strictly regulated.  p 
 p Norway’s policy is to ensure that bear populations are viable and that active and all-round use of resources in uncultivated areas can be maintained, including grazing by livestock and domestic reindeer.  p 
 p This means that in some areas, we are trying to maintain a bear population and at the same time safeguard livestock and or domestic reindeer. Measures to prevent or reduce bear-human conflicts are very important. These may include suitable fencing, bringing livestock in from rough grazing earlier than normal, using dogs to guard livestock, or keeping livestock in enclosures at night. In addition, problem bears can be culled in acute situations.  p 
 p class="figcaption" The map shows designated management areas for brown bear in Norway. You can zoom in or out to explore further.  p 
 p In areas where it has been decided that breeding bears are unwanted, culling is the most important means of regulating the population. In these cases, culling of a quota of bears is permitted.  p 
 p In addition, it is easier to obtain permission to cull problem bears that take sheep or domestic reindeer in these areas than in the designated management areas for bears.  p 
 p Collection of bear scat and hair samples for DNA analysis is the most important method of monitoring the bear population. This is part of the national monitoring programme for predators. The monitoring programme provides detailed information about the geographical distribution and size of the bear population.  p 
 p DNA analysis of the samples makes it possible to determine the sex and identity of the bear in each case. This information, together with knowledge of the size of the home range normally used by female bears and the age structure of the bear population, is used to estimate the number of litters born in Norway each year.  p 
 p Golden eagles breed in most parts of Norway except the southeastern lowlands. The population has probably been more or less stable for the past 20 years, and in 2010 the species was removed from the Norwegian Red List.  p 
 p  label id="heading1" State  label   p 
 p The breeding population of golden eagles in Norway in 2015 was estimated to be between 652 and 1139 pairs.  p 
 p Norway’s aim is to maintain a stable golden eagle population in each of the eight management regions for carnivores and golden eagle, in accordance with a decision by the Storting in 2004. In most parts of Norway, the population appears to have been stable for many years.  p 
 p  label id="heading2" Pressure  label   p 
 p Golden eagles have large territories and need nesting sites where they will not be disturbed. This makes them vulnerable to habitat loss and fragmentation. Factors that can have a negative impact on golden eagles include changes in land use and physical alteration of the landscape, for example through the construction of roads and buildings, power lines, wind farms and hydropower infrastructure.  p 
 p Golden eagles are particularly sensitive to disturbance during the incubation period. Since they lay eggs in March-April, this often coincides with Easter, which in Norway is a long holiday and a popular time for skiing in the mountains. People sometimes disturb incubating birds, resulting in breeding failure.  p 
 p  label id="heading3" Response  label   p 
 p In recent years, growing attention has been paid to developments that reduce the area of suitable habitat for golden eagles and cause habitat fragmentation, and the impacts they have on the population.  p 
 p One important way of maintaining the Norwegian golden eagle population is to make people more aware of factors that can have a negative impact on them, including disturbance during the breeding season. Monitoring and inspection of known nesting sites is also needed.  p 
 p The golden eagle is included in Appendix II of the Bern Convention.   p 
 p Golden eagles in Norway are monitored as part of the national monitoring programme for large carnivores.  p 
 p Breeding territories currently or previously in use are registered throughout Norway, and in selected areas adult survival and production of young are monitored more intensively.  p 
 p The map below shows the 11 areas that are included in the intensive monitoring programme. The red circles are areas that have been part of the terrestrial environmental monitoring programme for many years, and where figures for production of young were already available. The blue circles show areas where monitoring started in 2012 or 2013.   p 
 p The lynx is widely distributed in northern Europe, but a substantial proportion of the population lives in Norway, Sweden and northwestern Finland. All three countries are therefore independently responsible for lynx management within their borders, and also have a joint responsibility for management in the region as a whole, since lynxes range widely across national borders.  p 
 p The lynx is the only wild cat in Norway. It is an forest animal that feeds mainly on roe deer and smaller mammals, but can also take sheep and reindeer. This lynx was photographed under controlled conditions. Photo: Bård Bredesen, naturarkivet.no  p 
 p  label id="heading1" State  label   p 
 p In the mid-19th century, the lynx was fairly widely distributed in Norway, except along the west coast and in northern parts of the country. Its distribution probably became more restricted during the 1800s, and by 1920–30 only relict populations remained. This was also the case in Sweden.  p 
 p In the 1950s and 1960s lynx numbers rose again. The species expanded into parts of its former range, and also expanded its range northwards in both Sweden and Norway, so that there are now lynxes in areas where they were not previously found.  p 
 p Today, there is a permanent population of lynx throughout Norway, except in the counties of Western Norway, where it occurs more sporadically. Lynxes probably did not breed in Finnmark until 1980.  p 
 p The map below shows where lynx family groups were registered in Norway in 2017. Each circle represents one family group.  p 
 p In 2017, 55,5 litters of lynx were registered in Norway before the start of the hunting season, corresponding to about 330 animals. Thus, the annual target of 65 litters was not reached in 2017.  p 
 p  label id="heading2" Pressure  label   p 
 p By the 1930s, year-round hunting and the payment of bounties had almost completely eradicated the lynx from Norway. Today, the population is regulated by hunting under the normal rules of the Wildlife Act.   p 
 p A quota is set for each management area where the annual population target has been reached. The Norwegian Environment Agency can set a quota even if the population target has not been achieved.  p 
 p  label id="heading3" Response  label   p 
 p The government bounty scheme for lynx was ended in 1980, and in 1992 the species was protected in the southern half of Norway, until hunting was reintroduced (regulated by quotas) in 1994.  p 
 p The Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats applies to the lynx. The species is included in Appendix III, which lists protected animal species. It is also included in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).   p 
 p Norway’s current policy is intended to ensure that the lynx population is viable and that active and all-round use of resources in uncultivated areas can be maintained, including grazing by livestock and domestic reindeer.  p 
 p Measures to reduce losses of livestock and domestic reindeer are important in preventing and reducing lynx–human conflicts. Hunting quotas and culling are both intended as measures to reduce conflict.  p 
 p class="figcaption" The map shows designated management areas for lynx. You can zoom in or out to explore further.  p 
 p The lynx population is monitored as part of the national monitoring programme for large carnivores.  p 
 p Family groups (which consist of a mother and her yearling cubs) are registered each year by snow-tracking. This is usually done by local observers, who report to the Norwegian Nature Inspectorate. In addition, lynx tracks are censused along fixed line transects in some parts of Norway. The Norwegian Association of Hunters and Anglers is responsible for these observations.  p 
 p The original Scandinavian wolf population died out during the 1960s. The wolves found in Norway and Sweden today are descended from a small number of animals from the Finnish-Russian population that dispersed as far as southern Scandinavia in the 1980s and 1990s. The wolf is red-listed as critically endangered in Norway today.  p 
 p  label id="heading1" State  label   p 
 p During the 1990s, the Scandinavian wolf population grew strongly, from fewer than ten animals to almost 100 in 1999. Population growth has continued after this.  p 
 p The Scandinavian population is relatively isolated, so that inbreeding and a lack of genetic diversity may determine whether it is viable in the long term. This is an important issue for the management authorities.  p 
 p In winter 2016–17, the monitoring programme showed that there were around 430 wolves in Scandinavia. There were 46 packs and 28 scent-marking pairs. 54-56 wolves were classified with territories entirely in Norway, 51-56 with territories straddling the Norwegian-Swedish border. This gives a total of 105-112 observated wolves fultime or partly staying in Norway.  p 
 p  label id="heading2" Pressure  label   p 
 p Before wolves were given legal protection in 1971, they had already been exterminated in Norway by relentless hunting.  p 
 p Recent research has shown that there is considerable poaching of wolves, and that this is the most important cause of wolf mortality. Illegal kills also make it much more difficult to ensure sound management of the wolf population.  p 
 p  label id="heading3" Response  label   p 
 p Wolves were given temporary protection in Norway from 1971, and permanent protection from 15 May 1973. The wolf is listed as critically endangered on the Norwegian Red List from 2015.  p 
 p Norway’s national target is four to six wolf litters to be born each year within the designated management area for breeding wolves.  p 
 p class="figcaption" The map shows the designated management area for wolves. You can zoom in or out to explore further.  p 
 p Wolf scat and hair samples are collected for DNA analysis to find out how many wolves there are in each territory and the relationships between them. Together with traditional tracking and registration of litters, this makes it possible to monitor the wolf population.  p 
 p The wolf population is regulated by culling by licensed hunters. When a cull is authorised, the authorities specify the wolf quota and the geographical areas where the cull is to take place. The purpose is to reduce livestock damage.  p 
 p If an acute situation arises, the authorities may also authorise culling of a specific problem wolf to prevent losses of livestock or domestic reindeer.  p 
 p The Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats applies to the wolf. The species is included in Appendix II, which lists strictly protected animal species. It is also included in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). This Appendix lists species in which trade may be permitted but must be strictly regulated.  p 
 p The wolverine used to be widely distributed in Norway, but became locally extinct in parts of its range in the first half of the 20th century. In the last three years, the wolverine population in Norway has declined.  p 
 p  label id="heading1" State  label   p 
 p In 2017, 40 wolverine litters were registered in Norway. This is a little above the national population target, which is 39 litters a year.  p 
 p The map below shows where wolverine litters were registered in Norway in 2017. Each circle represents one litter.  p 
 p Data from the national monitoring programme for large carnivores are used to provide annual estimates of how many wolverines there are in Norway. In 2017, the total winter population was estimated at 324 adult animals. The number of litters registered in the three preceding seasons is used as a basis for these estimates.  p 
 p The Scandinavian wolverine population is divided into three main sub-populations:  p 
 p  label id="heading2" Pressure  label   p 
 p The wolverine population in the southern half of Norway declined severely in the early 20th century as a result of hunting pressure. Wolverines became locally extinct. In winter 1964–65, ten wolverines were killed in the Jotunheimen mountains, and this probably wiped out the last breeding wolverine population in the southern half of the country.  p 
 p After the severe decline in important parts of its range, the wolverine was protected in Sweden in 1968 and the southern half of Norway in 1973.  p 
 p The establishment of a breeding population in the Rondane-Dovrefjell area in the period 1976–79 was probably a direct result of this, so that protection allowed wolverines to become re-established in an area where there had not been a resident population for more than 50 years. Breeding females have since colonised neighbouring areas of the mountains.  p 
 p Since the 1970s, the population has grown in the three northernmost counties and the mountains of central and southern Norway.  p 
 p  label id="heading3" Response  label   p 
 p Since the 1990s, the environmental authorities have regulated wolverine numbers by culling. In areas where it has been decided that breeding wolverines are unwanted, culling is the most important means of regulating the population – either by setting a quota of wolverines that can be killed by licensed hunters in a particular area or by permitting killing of problem individuals  p 
 p class="figcaption" The map shows designated management areas for wolverine. You can zoom in or out to explore further.  p 
 p In areas where livestock and domestic reindeer are given priority, measures to prevent or reduce wolverine-human conflicts are very important. These may include suitable fencing, bringing livestock in from rough grazing earlier than normal in the autumn, guarding livestock or using night-time enclosures.   p 
 p Wolverines are monitored as part of the national monitoring programme for large carnivores. The number of litters born every year is registered (both known denning areas and other suitable areas are checked), and samples of wolverine scat and hair are sent for DNA analysis. This provides more information on individual animals, habitat use and population structure.  p 
 p The Bern Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats applies to the wolverine. The species is included in Appendix II, which lists strictly protected animal species.   p 
