 p  strong A:  strong  Wolf &amp; Badger is a global curated marketplace for independent brands. Launched in 2009 with 3 stores across London and New York, Wolf &amp; Badger is the leading destination for emerging design brands, offering womenswear, menswear, jewellery, accessories, homeware, beauty and grooming products.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Not only do we have amazing bricks and mortar stores, but we also pride ourselves on only stocking cutting-edge independent brands. This means you’ll always find the most interesting, unique and unusual collections on our site, carefully chosen by our team, while safe in the knowledge that they will arrive on your doorstep quickly and securely.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  All collections available online have been through a rigorous selection process and are currently sold through our award-winning stores. We guarantee that they have all been through this selection process before being sold online so as to ensure they are independent, cutting-edge in design and of the highest manufacturing quality. In addition, we operate a CSR (corporate social responsibiility) policy - read more here:  a href=" uk pages csr-policy " title="Corporate Social Responsibility Policy" CSR Policy  a .  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Yes, two! One in London, one in New York. For more information visit our stores pages:  a href=" uk stores kings-cross-london " title="King's Cross store - London" London  a  and  a href=" uk stores soho-new-york " title="SoHo store - New York" New York  a .  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Most manufacturing of items sold through Wolf &amp; Badger is done in the UK or Europe by the designer themselves or under their close supervision. If not, we encourage our designers to only use local artisans from the country of origin and using traditional methods.  p 
 p A: No! We will never sell exotic animal skins, fur or anything else unethical. This means that although we sell some animal hides such as cow and lamb, we only sell skins where they are a by-product of the meat industry. We will never sell a product where an animal has been killed for its skin alone.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  We ship orders worldwide! See our  a href=" uk pages help delivery " Delivery page  a  for more information. The cost of shipping will depend on where the product is coming from (our designers are based globally, from USA to Italy, and everywhere in between).  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Generally, customers pay the additional costs such as duties, taxes, and customs clearance fees. Import charges can vary widely but are most commonly based on the price and type of item, package weight and dimensions, origin country, and the taxes, duties, and fees of the destination country. No duties or taxes will be charged for domestic orders.   p 
 p  strong UK and EU customers  strong   p 
 p Packages between EU countries: custom duty is not applied on items sold within the EU  p 
 p Packages from outside EU: for packages shipped from a non-EU country into an EU country, custom duty and import VAT may apply on these items.  p 
 p  strong US customers  strong   p 
 p Packages from inside US: custom duty is not applied on items sold within the US  p 
 p Packages from outside US: packages whose declared value is under $800 will generally be cleared without any additional paperwork or charges. Packages with a declared value of over $800 are liable to customs fees.  p 
 p (Disclaimer: this information does not constitute legal advice, and is for information purposes only.)  p 
 p  strong A:   strong Yes! Just add the correct address at checkout.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Check out the products stocked in our bricks and mortar stores in London or New York, these are available for immediate dispatch: span    span  a href=" uk stores kings-cross-london " title="King' Cross store - London" London  a  span  and   span  a href=" uk stores soho-new-york " title="SoHo store - New York" New York  a  span .  span   p 
 p  span  strong A:  strong  Our designers send their products to you directly, which means faster shipping times, and if you’ve ordered from multiple brands, you will receive separate packages from each.  span   p 
 p  strong A:   strong Yes. We work with designers from all over the world, so items are often being sent from very different locations, incurring multiple shipping costs!  p 
 p  strong A:   strong Our designers ship their products to you directly, meaning multiple shipping costs are incurred. Our brands are all small, independent businesses and you are supporting them with every purchase!  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Yes - for security reasons all deliveries require a signature. You can have your order delivered to a work address such as an office, just update the delivery address during checkout.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Yes - just select this option at checkout. You can return your order in store there and then for a full refund if the item doesn't fit or if you just change your mind!  p 
 p  strong A  strong : Just get in touch with us within 14 days of receiving your order, and we will arrange everything for you, for FREE. You can drop your return off at one of the 7000 Collect+ points around the UK, or for international orders we can arrange a DHL courier collection. For more information, please visit our  a href=" uk pages help returns " Returns page  a .  p 
 p  strong A  strong :  span Unfortunately we are unable to offer exchanges.   span If you would like to exchange sizes, you'll need to place a new order for the size that you need and return your original order, as we're unable to put stock on hold.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Yes, if you have any problems with your order at all, just  a href=" uk pages help contact " Contact Us  a  and we will help you.  p 
 p  strong A:  strong  No, you will only need to make a single payment no matter how many products you order - we provide a secure single payment process to make it easier for you to shop with us.  p 
 p  strong A:   strong You can pay using Visa, Mastercard or American Express, or via PayPal. We accept payment in £GBP, $EUR, $USD and $AUD so that you know exactly what you are paying. You can toggle your preferred currency in the navigation bar at the top of the page.  p 
 p  strong A:   strong Unfortunately we're unable to take payment over the phone.  p 
 p  strong A:   strong  span If the product is cheaper on the brand's own website, or via one of their direct sales channels, please  a href=" uk pages help contact " Contact Us  a  span    span  and we will match the price for you! Please note we're unable to offer a price match for products sold through independent retailers.  span   p 
 p  strong A:  strong  Read our  a href=" uk pages help size-guide " Size Guide  a . If you’re still not sure, just  a href=" uk pages help contact " Contact Us  a  and we will do our best to advise you.  p 
 p  span  strong Q:  strong   strong What should I do if the item I have just received is faulty or damaged?   strong   span   p 
 p  span  strong A:  strong  In the unlikely event that an item is faulty or damaged when you receive it, please inform our Customer Service team within 14 days from the date you received it, via email to span    span   span  a href="mailto:support@wolfandbadger.com" target="_blank" support@wolfandbadger.com  a  span . Please include a photo and description of the fault and we will arrange a return for a refund or replacement for you.  span   p 
 p  strong A:  strong  We are always happy to help you, please just  a href=" uk pages help contact " Contact Us  a  with any questions you have!  p 
 p © 2019 Wolf &amp; Badger |  a data-multiple-modals data-devices="all" data-close-button="true" data-target="#termsModal" href=" uk pages terms " Terms &amp; Conditions  a  |  a data-multiple-modals data-devices="all" data-close-button="true" data-target="#privacyModal" href=" uk pages privacy " Privacy Policy  a 
    p 
