 p Finnish authorities said Monday they plan to maintain culling of the protected wolf population to prevent illegal poaching, despite opposition from environmentalists.
                                  p 
 p Fifty-five out of Finland's 290 grey wolves were culled during the 2015-2016 hunting season, and the Finnish Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry said culling needed to continue.  p 
 p "The aim is to increase the wolf population's acceptability especially amongst local people living in the wolf territories and to diminish... illegal poaching," the ministry said in a statement.  p 
 p The decision came after two month-long trial culls in 2015 and 2016, during which licensed hunters were allowed to seek permits for killing individual wolves.  p 
 p But in addition to the 55 wolves culled over the winter, 23 animals died for other reasons such as traffic accidents, poaching, or were shot by police to protect people.  p 
 p Ministerial adviser Sami Niemi admitted the high number of other deaths had caught the authorities by surprise and as a result, the licensing system was being modified before hunting could continue.  p 
 p Niemi said the ministry was now to define an annual maximum for all wolf deaths to prevent excessive culling.  p 
 p Environmentalists have heavily criticised Finland for culling an animal strictly protected by the European Union's legislation.  p 
 p "The numbers have been significant and wrong wolf individuals have been shot in these hunts", the Finnish Nature League's manager Sami Saynevirta told AFP.  p 
 p He was referring to the estimated 20 reproducing leader wolves that were shot during the latest cull, although the aim was to target young individuals.  p 
 p But the ministry said that before the trial culls, when hunting was not allowed, the wolf population reached its record low at between 120 and 135 animals in 2013, mainly due to poaching.  p 
 p After the culls, Finland's Natural Resources Institute estimated there were between 200 and 235 wolves left in the country, but new counts are needed to define how many wolf packs were able to reproduce this year.  p 
 p The European protection rules allow some exceptions, such as hunting wolves in Finland's northern reindeer herding areas and more restricted hunting of individual wolves that attack livestock elsewhere in the country.  p 
 p Hunting is a widespread tradition in Finland. About 300,000 people register each year for permits, one of the highest per capita rates in Europe.
                                                                  p 
 p class="news-relevant" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org WebPage" 
                                         a href="#" id="inl-rel-href"  img class="toolsicon ic-rel" src="https:  cf3e497594.site.internapcdn.net tmpl v5 img 1x1.gif" width="14" height="16" alt=""   a 
                                         b Explore further:  b  
                                         a itemprop="relatedLink" href="https:  phys.org news 2016-02-finland-wolves-month-long-cull.html" Nearly 20% of Finland's wolves killed during month-long cull  a 
                                      p 
 p 
                                            © 2016 AFP
                                         br   p 
 p Nearly one fifth of Finland's endangered wolf population was killed in a controversial month-long cull which ended Sunday, authorities said on Monday.  p 
 p Finnish hunters have been authorised to kill nearly 20 percent of the country's wolf population in a controversial trial cull that opens this weekend, aimed at managing stocks, officials said Thursday.  p 
 p Finland on Saturday began a controversial wolf cull that gives hunters the right to kill around one fifth of the endangered animals, in a decision that has angered environmentalists.  p 
 p Swedish courts on Wednesday authorised the culling of 14 wolves pending a top court's decision on the legality of hunting an animal protected under European law.  p 
 p Allowing the legal culling of wild wolves in order to discourage illegal poaching is counter-productive, researchers reported Wednesday in a study that challenges long-practised conservation strategy.  p 
 p Swedish courts on Monday ordered a temporary ban on wolf hunting in parts of the country, favouring animal rights activists in one of Sweden's most hotly disputed environmental issues.  p 
 p Blue-blooded and armored with 10 spindly legs, horseshoe crabs have perhaps always seemed a bit out of place.  p 
 p As the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the globe, permafrost, land ice and sea ice are disappearing at unprecedented rates. And these changes not only affect the infrastructure, economies and cultures of the Arctic, ...  p 
 p Researchers at Delft University of Technology have created a quantum circuit to listen to the weakest radio signal allowed by quantum mechanics. This new quantum circuit opens the door to possible future applications in areas ...  p 
 p Located in the constellation of Hercules, about 230 million light-years away, NGC 6052 is a pair of colliding galaxies. They were first discovered in 1784 by William Herschel and were originally classified as a single irregular ...  p 
 p SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, completing a NASA demonstration mission that paves the way for the resumption of manned space flights from the US.  p 
 p Stars over eight times more massive than the sun end their lives in supernovae explosions. The composition of the star influences what happens during the explosion.  p 
 p Some species of Euglenids, a diversified family of aquatic unicellular organisms, can perform large-amplitude, elegantly coordinated body deformations. Although this behavior has been known for centuries, its function is ...  p 
 p 
                        Please  a href="https:  sciencex.com profile login " sign in  a  to add a comment.
                        Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
                         a href="https:  sciencex.com help account " Read more  a 
                  p 
 p  input type="email" required="" placeholder="email" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="email" name="email" 
                                  p 
 p  input type="password" required="" placeholder="password" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="passwd" name="passwd" 
                                 input type="hidden" value="login" name="status" 
    
                                  p 
 p 
                                         span class="float-right" id="cmPrThr"   span 
                                         input type="submit" value="Sign in" name="loginsubmit" id="login-submit" class="com-button" 
                                  p 
 p class="centered" Enter your Science X account credentials  p 
 p Connect  p 
 p class="copyright" © Phys.org 2003 - 2019,  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  sciencex.com " Science X network  a   p 
