 p BRUSSELS (AFP) - A wild wolf has been found in the northern Belgian region of Flanders for the first time in more than a century, an environmental group said on Saturday (Jan 13).  p 
 p "Our country was the only one in continental Europe to have not been visited by a wolf," since the animal began recolonising the continent, Landschap said.  p 
 p Overhunting, industrialisation and urban sprawl progressively led to the disappearance of the wolf from most of Western Europe since the beginning of the 20th century.  p 
 p Since the Bern Convention of 1979, the wolf has gone from public enemy to a protected species as "a fundamental element of our natural European heritage".  p 
 p In some countries, like Romania and Poland where there have always been wolves, people adapt to treat an attack on sheep "like an accident, like a flock that falls into a ravine", says Farid Benhammou, a specialist on predators.  p 
 p But in the new zones of wolf colonisation - in France and in some regions of Italy and Spain - there are major tensions, with farmers particularly unhappy at their re-emergence.  p 
 p The wolf detected in Flanders in early January had an electronic tracker collar around its neck which allowed it to be identified as coming from neighbouring Germany.  p 
 p The same animal had been spotted around Christmas in the Netherlands, according to Landschap.  p 
 p "In recent days the wolf has stayed near the Flemish town of Beringen and the military base at Leopoldsburg. The animal has covered 500km in 10 days," the group said.  p 
 p In 2011, hidden cameras picked up images at night of what was very likely a wolf in the Ardennes region of southern Belgium.  p 
 p But without any DNA traces, or any further appearances, the sighting could not be confirmed.  p 
 p Groups in support of biodiversity welcomed the latest news of a wolf detected in Belgium, calling on the government to adopt a strategy to encourage the return of the species to the country on a more permanent basis, including compensation to farmers whose livestock are attacked.  p 
 p class="copy" SPH Digital News   Copyright © 2019 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved   p 
 p We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused. Until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles. But a log-in is still required for our PDFs.  p 
