 p The red wolf is a smaller, thinner cousin of the gray wolf. It is gray-black in color, but has a distinctive reddish cast for which it is named.  p 
 p The red wolf is the world's most endangered canid, and the Southeast’s native wolf. Uniquely "All-American," the red wolf's entire historical range is confined within what is now the United States. Once roaming as far west as Texas, down into Florida, and up into the Midwest, the red wolf now persists in only a fraction of its range. It has lost more of its historical territory—99.7 percent—than any other large carnivore, including lions, tigers and snow leopards.  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong   p 
 p The red wolf’s diet primarily consists of deer and small mammals such as rabbits and rodents; however, they have been known to eat insects and berries.  p 
 p  strong Population  strong   p 
 p Hunted to the brink of extinction, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) rounded up fewer than 20 red wolves to be bred in captivity in 1980. In 1987, the FWS reintroduced red wolves into the wild, but years of political attacks, popular misconceptions and insufficient recovery plans continue to plague recovery efforts. As a result, their numbers continue to decline and red wolves are once again facing extinction in the wild.   p 
 p  strong Range  strong   p 
 p Historically, red wolves ranged throughout the southeastern U.S. from Pennsylvania to Florida and as far west as Texas. Today, wild populations roam just over 1.7 million acres throughout northeastern North Carolina, including Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge and Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge.  p 
 p  strong Behavior  strong   p 
 p Red wolves are primarily nocturnal and communicate by scent marking, vocalizations (including howling), facial expressions and body postures.  p 
 p Shy and secretive, red wolves hunt alone or in small packs – complex social structures that include the breeding adult pair (the alpha male and female) and their offspring. Red wolves tend to form pair-bonds for life.  p 
 p Pack size varies with the size of available prey populations. A hierarchy of dominant and subordinate animals within the pack helps it to function as a unit.   p 
 p  strong Reproduction  strong   p 
 p Only the alpha male and female in the pack mate. Other pack members will help care for the young and bring food to the breeding female. Red wolf dens are often located in hollow trees, stream banks and sand knolls.   p 
 p  strong Mating season:  strong  Late winter.   p 
 p  strong Gestation:  strong  60-63 days.  p 
 p  strong Litter size  strong : 2-8 pups.  p 
 p  strong Height:   strong About 26 inches at shoulders. br  strong Length:  strong  4.5-5.5 feet long (including the tail). br  strong Weight:   strong 50-80 lbs. br  strong Lifespan:  strong  6-7 years in the wild; up to 15 years in captivity.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
