 p On this page, we present the results of the “Bear-Safe Community” project. We hope that schools, organizations, and individuals download this material and use it for positive effect in their communities. Remember, a community that is responsible about bears is a community protecting people, their property and the bears.  p 
 p In 2013, the Grizzly &amp; Wolf Discovery Center received a grant from the Utah Society for Environmental Education and the Environmental Protection Agency to create the “Bear-Safe Community Project”.  p 
 p  img class=" wp-image-772 size-medium alignleft" src=" wp-content uploads 2015 02 BSC-Decal-COLOR-232x300.jpg" alt="BSC-Decal-COLOR" width="232" height="300" srcset="https:  www.grizzlydiscoveryctr.org wp-content uploads 2015 02 BSC-Decal-COLOR-232x300.jpg 232w, https:  www.grizzlydiscoveryctr.org wp-content uploads 2015 02 BSC-Decal-COLOR-718x930.jpg 718w, https:  www.grizzlydiscoveryctr.org wp-content uploads 2015 02 BSC-Decal-COLOR.jpg 772w" sizes="(max-width: 232px) 100vw, 232px" This project is helping communities become safe for residents and visitors by preventing conflicts with bears. An action plan was developed that includes surveys, checklists, curriculum, brochures and the innovative and eye-catching logo you see on this page. All of these are available for your use in your school, your scout group, and your community.  p 
 p The town of West Yellowstone’s Smokey Waters Day Camp (Summer Recreation) program was the major partner for the project. West Yellowstone students were instrumental in the process and spent the summer involved in community outreach. They developed the components for the project with help from Grizzly &amp; Wolf Discovery Center staff.  p 
 p Many people are fearful of camping or hiking in bear country. Indeed there is risk of being hurt by a bear while recreating in bear country, but the risk is small. You may reduce your risk further by learning about bears, how to avoid them and what to do if you encounter one.  p 
 p Most bears avoid people. Many hikers never even know that they passed close to a bear because the bear did such a good job of avoiding them. Most encounters end with the bear and human departing in opposite directions, without harm to either party. Your risk of being hurt by a bear is lower than your risk of being hit by lightning and much lower than your risk of being hurt in a car accident as you drive to bear country.  p 
 p What follows are some recommendations from bear experts on what to do and how to behave when hiking and camping in bear country. Following this advice should help you reduce your risk, but remember, there is no guarantee of your safety. Every encounter is unique as is every bear.  p 
 p The most important thing to remember when camping in bear country is,  b never allow bears to obtain your food, garbage, or other attractants  b . Bears that learn to obtain food in campgrounds often become increasingly bold and aggressive in their efforts to obtain these foods. They may damage vehicles, tents and other property. In rare instances bears that learn to obtain human foods even enter tents and attack people, resulting in injury and sometimes death. Bears that behave in this way are usually killed by bear managers. Bears are attracted to all of the following items:  p 
 p All of these items should be stored where bears cannot obtain them:  p 
 p Be sure to follow all local regulations and in general, follow these guidelines:  p 
 p The most important thing to remember if you do encounter a bear is, don’t run! If you run, you may very well trigger the bear’s predatory instincts and if it wants to catch you, it will. A bear can sprint at 35 mph and cover 100 yards in about 7 seconds. Stop and calmly assess the situation.  p 
 p Bear pepper spay has proven very effective at repelling approaching or aggressive bears and reducing the incidence of human injury. In fact, it is even more effective than a firearm in preventing injury. Statistics show that people defending themselves with guns were injured about 50% of the time while people using bear spray usually escaped injury.  p 
 p Bear spray is a special chemical solution containing 1%-2% capsaicin. This chemical comes from hot peppers; making the solution extremely irritating to the nose, eyes, throat, mouth and lungs. It temporarily disables the bear but causes no permanent harm.  p 
 p Bear spray should be discharged only at approaching, charging or aggressive bears. Do not spray it on backpacks, clothing, tents or people; it is not a repellant like bug spray is. If you decide to carry bear spray make sure you look for the following attributes in the product you purchase:  p 
 p If you intend to carry bear spray, read the manufacturers instructions closely and follow them. Mentally rehearse how you would use your bear spray.  p 
 p Additional Resources:  p 
 p    a href="https:  www.grizzlydiscoveryctr.org visit hours-rates " class="more-link" The Grizzly &amp; Wolf Discovery Center is open 365 days a year, including all holidays, (GWDC bears do NOT hibernate). Admission is good for two consecutive days!  a   p 
 p  strong 8:30am - 4:00pm | 7 days a week  strong  br 
 a href=" visit hours-rates " See all Hours and Rates  a   p 
 p  strong Bear Cam  strong   p 
 p  strong Wolf Cam  strong   p 
 p Check out the latest on social media!  p 
