 p class="empty" Your cart is empty  p 
 p  a href=" hosted-ebooks" Click here  a  for more information on Bearport eBooks.  p 
 p Save an additional 25% off the eBooks!  p 
 p Most rodents, such as mice, rats, and chipmunks, are small animals—but not the capybara! This animal is the biggest rodent in the world. An adult capybara is the size of a large dog, growing to a length of about 4 feet (1.2 m) and weighing about 110 pounds (50 kg). Capybaras live in big groups of 10 to 30 animals and travel together looking for food. As they move, they bark, grunt, chirp, and whistle to keep in touch with one another. These super-sized animals are big communicators! In  i Capybara: The World’s Largest Rodent  i , large color photos and grade-appropriate text will engage young readers as they learn about the natural habitat, physical characteristics, diet, life cycle, and behavior of this huge rodent. A comparison diagram is also included to show readers the animal in relation to a familiar object.  p 
 p class="byline"  em Reviewed on  1 April 2010  em   p 
 p Offering a straightforward introduction to the capybara, a large rodent native to South America, this serviceable book provides a short text and colorful reproductions of stock photographs from many sources. A typical double-page spread includes several well-spaced sentences of text and a large photo illustrating some aspect of the animal, such as its large, curved front teeth; social behavior; defenses against predators; or manner of caring for its young. The emergence of commercial capybara ranches is also discussed. After comparing the capybara with three other large rodents, the final pages offer a brief glossary and a short reading list. Other volumes available in the More SuperSized series, which is essentially similar to the publisher’s 2007 SuperSized series, feature the brown bear, emperor penguin, killer whale, red kangaroo, reticulated python, Siberian tiger, and southern elephant seal.  p 
 p class="byline"  em Reviewed on  1 April 2010  em   p 
 p Offering a straightforward introduction to the capybara, a large rodent native to South America, this serviceable book provides a short text and colorful reproductions of stock photographs from many sources. A typical double-page spread includes several well-spaced sentences of text and a large photo illustrating some aspect of the animal, such as its large, curved front teeth; social behavior; defenses against predators; or manner of caring for its young. The emergence of commercial capybara ranches is also discussed. After comparing the capybara with three other large rodents, the final pages offer a brief glossary and a short reading list. Other volumes available in the More SuperSized series, which is essentially similar to the publisher’s 2007 SuperSized series, feature the brown bear, emperor penguin, killer whale, red kangaroo, reticulated python, Siberian tiger, and southern elephant seal.  p 
 p class="copyright" 
          © 2019 Bearport Publishing. All rights reserved.
          p 
 p class="colophon" This site is powered by  a href="http:  titleleaf.com" titleleaf  a   p 
