 p If you're looking for a something a little "out of ordinary" for a pet - you've come to the right place! These ten  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com 7-exotic-pet-instagram-accounts-need-following " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" exotic pets  a  are legal to own in many places in America, some of them just require a license.  p 
 p These odd animals can truly make a great pet, but make sure to do lots of your own research.  p 
 p The capybara is one of the  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com how-well-do-you-know-your-rodents " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" largest rodents  a  in the world and can weigh up to 140 pounds, but they sure are cute! They're semi-aquatic animals, so if you're looking to adopt a capybara, they'll definitely need access to water in order to swim around.  p 
 p Although mostly adorable and sweet, capybaras can be a challenging pet. They do better in groups as they are extremely social animals, so pet owners should avoid getting a single capybara.  p 
 p This semi-aquatic rodent is legal to own in Texas and Pennsylvania. In some states they are legal but require licenses. If you're unsure, check with your local registration before deciding to bring home a capybara as a pet.  p 
 p Originating from Australia, the  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com many-pets-no-thing " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" bearded dragon  a  is a common house pet in the United States. They make good pets for kids because they have a calm nature and are relatively easy to care for.  p 
 p They can grow to be up to two feet long, so you'll need ample space for them to live in your home. Although they do love to be held and handled, you'll still want to wash your hands thoroughly afterward.  p 
 p Bearded dragons are legal to own in the United States, and sold in most pet stores.  p 
 p  strong style="font-size: 29px;" 3. Serval  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p Although not always an ideal pet for everyone, the serval is an incredibly  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com 12-bengal-cats-showing-off-their-wild-side " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" beautiful exotic cat  a  that comes from Africa. Owning a serval requires a different mindset than owning a domestic cat.  p 
 p Servals aren't typically aggressive, but they can be difficult to own as they are still considered "wild." These beautiful animals can be very affectionate, but they have survival instincts that you may not be able to train. Regardless, they can make great companions!  p 
 p The states in which owning a serval is legal make up about half of the United States. It's legal to own a serval in Nevada, Idaho, Wisconsin, Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, West Virginia without a license required. You can obtain a license to own a serval in Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Texas, Arizona, Mississippi, Missouri, Indiana, Pennsylvania, and Maine.  p 
 p It is illegal to own one of these big cats in all other states.  p 
 p Fennec foxes also come from the African continent and are the smallest breed of fox in the world, only reaching about four pounds when fully grown. Their behavior closely resembles that of both a dog and a cat.  p 
 p Usually playful and energetic like a dog, the  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com cat-masseuse-gives-fennec-fox-best-massage " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" fennec fox  a  is also independent like a cat - although they don't usually favor dog or cat toys. They typically live to be 10 to 15 years old, so buying a fennec fox is a commitment, like most pets.  p 
 p It is legal to own a fennec fox everywhere in the United States except Missouri, Minnesota, Nevada, and Washington.  p 
 p Closely resembling the kangaroo, wallabies are often referred to as "mini kangaroos." They are extremely common in the wild in Australia, but can be seen around the United States as pets.  p 
 p Wallabies are truly exotic, as they are not like any pet you've owned before. If you're considering getting a wallaby as a companion, you'll want to do lots of research before bringing one home.  p 
 p Lots of outdoor space is required to own a wallaby, so they are illegal to own inside many city limits. Check with your state before deciding to look for a wallaby as a pet - you may need to obtain a license first.  p 
 p Although there is no doubt they're absolutely adorable, chimpanzees can be difficult pets.  p 
 p A chimpanzee's lifespan can be upwards of 50 years, meaning you're signing up for a lifelong commitment of  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com whatever-happened-michael-jacksons-animals-neverland " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" raising this wild animal  a .  p 
 p A male chimp can grow to be around 150 pounds and is at least twice as strong as humans. Designing an enclosure for your new pet may be difficult as it'll need to be extremely durable. Chimps really do belong in the wild, but if you're properly trained and have experience around primates, you may be in luck.  p 
 p Owning a chimpanzee is illegal in most states throughout the country, but you may be able to obtain a license to own one in a few states like Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, or North Dakota. Although some states don't necessarily have "regulations" against owning a chimpanzee, you'll still need to check with your state first.  p 
 p They sure are adorable - but is a  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com 15-hedgehogs-that-are-ready-for-a-costume-party " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" hedgehog  a  the right pet for you?  p 
 p Caring for a hedgehog can be similar to the care you would give to rodents like  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com everything-need-know-campbells-dwarf-hamster " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" hamsters  a  or  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com know-difference-peruvian-silkie-guinea-pig " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" guinea pigs  a . They'll need a cage, food, water, a hiding place, and a place to do their "business."  p 
 p It's legal to own a hedgehog in most states around the United States. However, there are a few places where it's still illegal - Pennsylvania, Hawaii, California, Georgia, Arizona, and Maine. Although, you may be able to own one with a permit in these states.  p 
 p Able to grow up to 40 inches tall with a 60-inch wingspan,  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com everything-need-know-hyacinth-macaw " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" hyacinth macaws  a  are extremely strong animals.  p 
 p If you decide to own this large macaw, you'll definitely want to begin  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com how-to-teach-your-parrot-to-skatebird-video " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" training  a  as young as possible to ensure they never hurt anyone with their powerful beak. They're very smart birds that love to play and climb.  p 
 p Even though you can own this beautiful bird as a pet, they're still considered endangered with only 2,500-5,000 left in the wild. They're costly (think upwards of ten thousand dollars) and require lots of special care.  p 
 p Hyacinth macaws are legal in most states as long as they are obtained legally (not stolen or imported) and the proper documentation is completed.  p 
 p The chinchilla is a member of the rodent family but is (unfortunately) one of the more destructive ones.  p 
 p Owning a chinchilla takes a special kind of expertise and patience. They don't like to be cuddled, but they love to run around and play. They can get bored relatively easily so they'll need lots of "fun" things to entertain them.  p 
 p As long as the chinchilla is obtained legally (not captured from the wild), it is legal to own one in most states - no license required.  p 
 p In the same snake family as boas, ball pythons are a type of constrictor snake - meaning they kill their prey by constricting and suffocating them. Although smaller than boas, pythons can reach up to three or four feet long and live for an average of 20 to 30 years.  p 
 p Like other  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com everything-you-need-to-know-about-corn-snakes " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" snakes  a  (and many other pets), you'll need the proper enclosure, food, and environment for them.  p 
 p Maybe not surprisingly, ball pythons are illegal to own in Florida (unless you have a permit prior to 2010), New York, Hawaii, and some cities in California. They're legal in most other places and don't require a license to own.  p 
 p  strong  span style="color: #ff0000;" READ MORE  span :  a href="http:  www.wideopenpets.com ex-pet-burmese-pythons-invading-everglades " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" How Ex-Pet Burmese Pythons Are Invading the Everglades  a   strong   p 
 p Some honorable mentions include pot-bellied pigs, red foxes, sugar gliders, slow loris, and large cats like lions, tigers. Wolves can also be owned with special exotic animal permits.  p 
 p Think you need a pet that no one else has? Start with one of these exotic animals and be the talk of the neighborhood! But make sure you do your research in your particular state; exotic pet ownership is nothing to take lightly!  p 
 p  em Do you own any of these animals? Have you checked your own state laws? Tell us in the comments below.   em   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff0000;"  strong WATCH NOW: These Presidents Owned Some Weird Pets  strong   span   p 
