 p Burmese pythons, lionfish, african land snails -- these are just a few of the invasive species considered threats to Florida ecosystems. And the fact that you really can't snuggle with serpent, a venomous fish or a disease-carrying mollusk perhaps makes them easier to eradicate.  p 
 p But what does Florida do about a potential invader that's a little on the cute side?  p 
 p Such a creature is a  strong  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Capybara" target="_blank" capybara  a   strong . Dr. Elizabeth Congdon, Department Chair of Natural Sciences at Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, is warning that the rodent (which looks like an oversized guinea pig) could be Florida's next invasive species. In the following interview, she tells WLRN's Christine DiMattei how the capybara came to Florida -- and what should be done to eliminate it as a pest without harming a species that some Americans are starting to keep as  em pets  em .     p 
 p Still have questions about the capybaras? Here are some FAQs.  p 
 p  em  strong What IS a capybara?  strong   em   p 
 p The capybara is the largest rodent in the world.  Native to South America, its closest relative is the guinea pig -- but capybaras can grow to about 4 feet long and around 100 pounds.    p 
 p  em  strong How did they get to Florida?  strong   em   p 
 p A few capybaras escaped from a research facility near Gainesville in the early 1990s. Most of them were recaptured but the ones that weren't have evidently been breeding; a number of juvenile capybaras have been spotted in north-central Florida.  p 
 p  em  strong Are they invasive in Florida?  strong   em   p 
 p Not yet. Until they become a problem, they're considered a non-native, "exotic" species, not an invasive one.  p 
 p  em  strong What would make them invasive?  strong   em   p 
 p If they breed to the point where they enter agricultural lands or spread disease to humans, capybaras will probably be classified an invasive species. In Brazil, they've been known to carry a tick that spreads spotted fever; also in that country, they're fond of eating crops like corn and sugar cane.  p 
 p  em  strong What should you do if you spot one?  strong   em   p 
 p Capybaras might look cute and cuddly, but animals lovers should resist the temptation to capture one from the wild and keep it as a pet (it's illegal to have a capybara as a pet in Florida without a permit). If you see one, you can contact the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission's Exotic Species Hotline at  strong 888-IVE-GOT1 (888- 483-4681).  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="http:  npr-wlrn.disqus.com ?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.wlrn.org%2Fpost%2Fcute-critter-could-be-floridas-next-invasive-species" View the discussion thread.  a   p 
 p 

  p 
 p style="margin-bottom: 1.5em; padding: 0px; border: 0px; font-size: 12.0012px; font-family: " helvetica="" neue="" arial="" sans-serif="" vertical-align:="" baseline="" color:="" rgb="" line-height:=""  em  strong UPDATE: If you think you've spotted  a New Guinea flatworm in your area, the recommendation is to not touch it, take a picture of it and report it to state wildlife officials at 888-IVE-GOT1.  strong   em  br   p 
 p style="margin-bottom: 1.5em; padding: 0px; border: 0px; font-size: 12.0012px; font-family: " helvetica="" neue="" arial="" sans-serif="" vertical-align:="" baseline="" color:="" rgb="" line-height:="" An invasive flatworm could potentially threaten wildlife, and even people in Southwest Florida. The New Guinea Flatworm was first found in the state near Miami more than a year ago. Now, they’ve popped up in Cape Coral, and most recently, Sanibel Island.  br   p 
 p 

  p 
 p Researchers are concerned about another nonnative species moving into Florida waters. Schools of the regal damselfish now live in coral reefs on the western side of the Gulf of Mexico. The fish are not harmful, but they could be a nuisance.  p 
 p 

  p 
 p  span style="line-height: 1.5;" The Argentine black and white   span tegu span style="line-height: 1.5;"  is one of the newest, biggest threats to Florida’s natural wildlife. The large, invasive lizard was first noticed in the wild roughly 10 years ago. Now, it has two main breeding populations and biologists are trying to contain them. They want to stop   span tegus span style="line-height: 1.5;"  from becoming established throughout the state.  span  br   p 
 p Officials say so far, 17 Burmese pythons have been caught during the hunt for the invasive species in Florida's wetlands.   p 
 p The  a href="http:  bit.ly 1KqiBKB"  em  strong South Florida Sun Sentinel  strong   em   a  reports the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission announced the tally Tuesday.   p 
 p class="partnerslabel" 
    p 
