 p We use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audience is coming from. To find out more or to opt-out, please read our  a href="https:  www.voxmedia.com pages cookie-policy" Cookie Policy  a . In addition, please read our  a href="https:  www.voxmedia.com pages privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a , which has also been updated and became effective May 23rd, 2018.  p 
 p By choosing  b I Accept  b , you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.  p 
 p id="cuJR72" Dogs and cats have been bred for centuries to be our companions; that’s why they make great pets. But more and more people around the world are instead choosing creatures like chinchillas, dingoes, and foxes as pets — while knowing very little about them.  p 
 p id="rTpfWo" Trouble is, some of these exotic animals don’t live well with us. Chimps, for example, are cute as babies, but then grow into extremely strong — sometimes aggressive — adults. Other exotics are finicky eaters and need lots of space to roam and play. Sadly, exotic animal ownership often ends with abandonment when humans can’t (or don’t know how to) care for the creatures anymore.   p 
 p id="bzpHMw" In May, a group of researchers in the Netherlands published a systematic ranking of animals’ suitability as pets, to aid public understanding and improve animal welfare.   p 
 p id="OgVYiN" The researchers came up with a  a href="http:  journal.frontiersin.org article 10.3389 fvets.2016.00035 full" list  a  of 90 mammals — combining data from an internet survey in the Netherlands, as well as information on animal confiscations from homes and a few other public data sources (also included: animals that appear at petting zoos).   p 
 p id="4It5Pj" For fun, I scrolled to the bottom of the list — to the least desirable pets. The research was done in the Netherlands, but the exotic animal trade is increasingly global. So no matter where you live, you’ll want to avoid these 25 mammals that make terrible pets.  p 
 p id="cOQUzq" First off, know that these rankings are based on subjective judgments from experts. The exact order isn’t so important; it’s more so that all of these animals fall on the “probably not great as pets” side of the spectrum.  p 
 p id="BLi6wQ" The Dutch research team had a series of experts in ecology, animal welfare, and veterinary science rank the animals in terms of suitability for living in a human home. The resulting  a href="http:  journal.frontiersin.org article 10.3389 fvets.2016.00035 full" paper  a , recently published in the journal  em Frontiers in Veterinary Science  em  em ,  em  has some fun surprises: Apparently wallabies, silva deer, and llamas make pretty decent pets. But there are far more that don’t.   p 
 p id="74bt2q" Bears of any kind are a great example of an animal that’s probably not a great pet. You might laugh, but people have kept bears — in  a href="http:  www.usatoday.com story news nation 2015 01 23 couple-forced-give-up-pet-bear 22207315 " this country  a  and abroad (with deadly  a href="http:  www.foxnews.com story 2009 10 05 woman-mauled-to-death-by-pet-black-bear.html" consequences  a ).   p 
 p id="BZjMhf" Bison  a href="https:  tpwd.texas.gov education resources resources lesson-plans terrestrial-ecology bison learning-about-bison-classroom-activities" eat around  a  24 pounds of grass a day. Do you have 24 pounds of grass? No, you don’t. Don’t get a pet bison. (Look at these pictures of a bison  a href="https:  go.redirectingat.com?id=66960X1516588&amp;xs=1&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.lonelyplanet.com%2Fnews%2F2016%2F05%2F17%2Fbison-lived-pet-pictures%2F" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank" living  a  in a home in Dallas. It barely fits.)  p 
 p id="KgHu5f" Damn, these are adorable. But as Popular Science  a href="http:  www.popsci.com science article 2012-10 fyi-domesticated-foxes" explains  a , when it comes to keeping foxes as pets, it’s important to know these animals may be tamed, but they are not domesticated. Tamed animals have been trained to live with humans. Domesticated animals have been bred, for centuries perhaps, to live with humans. Tamed animals are always going to be more dangerous.   p 
 p id="hdTc9h" Leopard cats are regal as all get-out. But know these cats would rather hunt rodents in the wild than eat than eat store-bought cat food.   p 
 p id="gCVtem"  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Dingoes_ate_my_baby" Lest you forget.   a   p 
 p id="n15HOb"  a href="http:  squirrelawareness.blogspot.com 2007 06 thirteen-lined-ground-squirrel.html" A commenter on the blog  a  Squirrel Awareness writes this story of trying to raise a 13-lined squirrel as a pet:  p 
 p I've noticed she grunts at me when approaching her cage. And for the past week when transferring her from indoor to outdoor cage, she climbs on my shoulder and tries to pull out my hair. And when I try to discourage her, she scratches. I'm beginning to fear her.   p 
 p id="pAQeuC" People the world over love zebras. But often owning them is illegal.  a href="http:  www.slate.com articles news_and_politics explainer 2010 08 can_you_keep_a_zebra_as_a_pet.html" According to Slate  a , “if you can't wait to buy a zebra, move to West Virginia or Wisconsin. These states have few restrictions on exotic-pet ownership, and you don't need permission from the local governments to start a zebra farm.”  p 
 p id="NG3Y0m" The clue should be in this creature’s name. This pet requires other pets. Where are you going to get the crabs, lobsters, and turtle eggs that this creature  a href="http:  www.theanimalfiles.com mammals carnivores raccoon_crab_eating.html" likes to eat?  a  They’re  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 41685 0" also nocturnal.  a   p 
 p id="Ionuqq" This picture says it all.   p 
 p id="S5aoYQ" According to  a href="http:  exoticpets.about.com" exoticpets.about.com  a : “Children should not be allowed to play with coati. Coati can bite, especially if they don't want you to do something, making unsuspecting children an obvious target. To sum this all up, coati are not good pets for most people.”  p 
 p id="rUAvS9" If you have a pet bat, I will never come over to your house. Never. Ever.   p 
 p id="8debsh" Also, these animals deserve to fly free in the wild. The Bat World Sanctuary, a nonprofit devoted to rescuing bats,  a href="https:  batworld.org our-mission " writes  a :  p 
 p Having a pet bat might make you feel cool, but people who know better (and most of them do) feel that it is a horrible cruelty and they cringe when they see people keeping a bat as a pet. Aside from that, the act of keeping a bat as a pet will cause it to experience terror, inappropriate and damaging nutrition and terrible loneliness and boredom.  p 
 p id="MCwRxV" Chinchillas are amazingly soft and somewhat adorable. And they’re some of the more popular pets on this list. But they’re also highly social animals that need a lot of stimulation and attention. Life in a solitary cage doesn’t suit them.  p 
 p id="EId50s" And then there’s this:  strong “  strong Chinchillas are not cuddlers,” the consumer interest website Knoji  a href="https:  rodents-marsupials.knoji.com six-reasons-why-chinchillas-do-not-make-good-pets-for-children " states  a . “Though a well socialized chinchilla will sit on it's owners lap for a few minutes, these animals are very inquisitive by nature and will not be content to just sit as they would much rather explore the world around them.”  p 
 p id="PIpIoy" Prairie dogs aren’t dogs. They’re rodents.   p 
 p id="TgWQ7D" This species of prairie dog is also  a href="https:  www.fws.gov mountain-prairie species mammals utprairiedog " listed as threatened  a  per the Endangered Species Act. Don’t remove these adorable animals from the wild.  p 
 p id="Nn9lV7" If you never heard of an animal species before (this one is new to me), you probably shouldn’t keep it as a pet.   p 
 p id="hxsEYK" Ditto.  p 
 p id="w8GjTt" Kinkajous are native to the rainforests of Central and South America. And though they have endearing faces, know they can pack a bite. In 2011 the Associated Press  a href="http:  www.today.com id 45061892#.V5jNeJOAOkp" reported  a  on a Tennessee girl going to the hospital with a pet kinkajou bite:  p 
 p By the next morning, the 16-year-old was battling a fever of 102, suffering severe headaches and urinating blood. Her mother rushed her to Children's Hospital at Erlanger.  p 
 p That's when Thurmond told her mother and doctors about the kinkajou bite. To which everyone replied, "Kinka-what?"  p 
 p "I had never heard of the animal, and neither had the doctors," said Thurmond's mother, Miika Montgomery. "I was Googling it, they were Googling it. ... If it had been a dog or a cat or a raccoon they would have known exactly what to do, but they had never seen anything like this."  p 
 p id="pBaN54" The website  a href="https:  go.redirectingat.com?id=66960X1516588&amp;xs=1&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fhealthypets.com" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank" healthypets.com  a  lists  a href="http:  healthypets.mercola.com sites healthypets archive 2015 05 16 raccoons-as-pets.aspx" 10 reasons  a  not to keep raccoons as pets. Here’s number 10:  p 
 p Raccoons act out when they’re unhappy and hormonal. Their natural instinct is to bite when they’re angry, frustrated, or stressed. However, raccoon guardians also tell stories of other ways in which their little guys or gals deliver payback, including “repotting” house plants, removing buttons from clothing someone was silly enough to leave around, moving belongings to other locations and sometimes peeing on them for good measure, flipping over water bowls, dumping the contents of bookcases, and stripping the bed sheets.  p 
 p id="het5ZW" Aka moose. I don’t care how big your backyard is, you don’t have room for moose.   p 
 p id="8RyksM" “Tamed red foxes are incredibly destructive to property, often have a strong musk odor, and can be dangerous to strangers or other pets,” Popular Science  a href="http:  www.popsci.com science article 2012-10 fyi-domesticated-foxes" reports  a .   p 
 p id="0KGohr" These giant rodents are frightening. Truly frightening. But looks aside,  a href="http:  capybarafacts.com capybara-as-pets " according to  a  capybarafacts.com:  p 
 p  capybaras live in groups, thus adopting one animal only will not be good.  p 
 p You would need to adopt at least two capybaras, but preferably more.  p 
 p Secondly, consider their size. They are huge. They are more than twice the size of a jackrabbit, they are the biggest rodents. Keeping at least two big rodents in good condition may be challenging and costly in itself, but besides that, they have special needs as well.  p 
 p id="6l3jSD" Brown bears — which include the fearsome North American grizzly — are huge and ferocious.   p 
 p id="pnfVDP" (On a clear morning in April 1805, Meriwether Lewis encountered his first North American grizzly bear in Montana. He shot at the animal when it approached him menacingly. It fought back, and continued to pursue him despite its wounds. "It was a most tremendous looking animal, and extremely hard to kill," Lewis  a href="http:  lewisandclarkjournals.unl.edu read ?_xmlsrc=1805-04-29.xml&amp;_xslsrc=LCstyles.xsl#n12042902" recalled  a .)  p 
 p id="Gdmbyn" This thing is ridiculously adorable. Will have trouble remembering fennec foxes don’t make suitable pets.   p 
 p id="x5eKSk" They’re nocturnal, with sharp claws and sharp teeth, and they pee on everything. Why do you want one?   p 
 p id="hoXFVY" There are four prairie dog species on this list. Take that as a hint. Prairie dogs are not suitable pets. Avoid.   p 
 p class="c-newsletter_signup_box__blurb" The news, but shorter, delivered straight to your inbox.  p 
