 p 
                     strong JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.  strong  br 
                    You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.                  p 
 p class="shortdesc" 
                    Ring set with round rubies and black diamond, in pink gold                   p 
 p class="desc" 
                    Delicate and playful, Hans, the hedgehog represented by this ring is both rounded and spiky.  br 
The precision of the gold crafting adds surprising reality to the animal. One of the Maison’s signature codes, the Pointe de diamant motif, gives the jewel a mirror aspect, full of light and sparkle.  br 
A protective animal, Hans, the hedgehog sits tenderly on the finger thanks to this dazzling and precious ring.                   p 
 p Gérard Boucheron’s cat, Wladimir, was a much-loved feature of the Place Vendôme boutique: he was perfectly at home, weaving through displays of jewels and precious stones. Wladimir’s presence in the private townhouse at 26 Place Vendôme added a genuine feeling of being in a family home. Considered to be a lucky cat and extremely affectionate, he would seek out the client’s gentle patting and stroking. Since then, Boucheron animals have never been aggressive or dangerous.  p 
 p class="shortDescription" 
                Ring set with round rubies and black diamond, in pink gold               p 
 p class="prize" 

 span class="no-price" Price on request  span 

 span class="display-price" style="display: none;" 
         span class="regular-price" id="product-price-18"   span 
         br  a href="#" class="link-small-right-arrow hide-price" Hide the price  a  br 
  span 
  p 
 p 2 round rubies, 0,02 carats br 
1  black round diamond, 0,01 carats br 
Pink gold 750 1000, 25,1g  p 
 p class="reference" 
                                                            Ref.:  span JRG00630  span 
                                                  p 
 p class="message-indicatif" *Stone and metal weight are indicative only. Non-contractual values.  p 
 p 
            By continuing your visit to our website, you agree to our use of cookies which allows us to provide personalized services and offers.
                         a href="https:  eu.boucheron.com en_eu cookies.html" Learn more.  a 
                      p 
