 p  img src=".. pics print-logo.gif" width="100" height="55" border="0" alt="Printlogo"     
         span class="h1" Printable version  span   p 
 p  span class="h1" On exotic hedgehogs as pets  span   p 
 p In accordance with its Constitution, Pro Igel e.V. campaigns for our native hedgehog
                ( span class="wiss" Erinaceus europaeus Linné 1758  span ) only, so we cannot campaign actively for
                exotic hedgehogs whose husbandry as pets or in pet shops cause claim.  p 
 p Pro Igel is categorically against exotic hedgehogs being kept in captivity. Our knowledge of
                all species of hedgehogs informs the argument emphatically against the  keeping of such hedgehogs.  p 
 p  span class="h2a" Hence our appeal to all animal lovers: br Do not purchase or breed exotic hedgehogs!  span   p 
 p About twenty years ago African white-bellied hedgehogs ( span class="wiss" Atelerix albiventris  span )
                began to be imported into the USA. When it was discovered that some of the hedgehogs were infested with
                ticks, which can be dangerous to cattle, the American Ministry of Agriculture prohibited further imports.
                But sufficient animals had already been imported into the country for large scale breeding of the
                "African Pygmy Hedgehog" or "dwarf hedgehog". By this time, the hedgehogs were being offered for sale in
                different colours (eg "chocolate" "snowflake", "cinnamon"), and if there was no breeder in the vicinity,
                a hedgehog would be flown to the purchaser by plane. Pet shops offer all sorts of accessories and special
                food.  p 
 p Even in Germany, Austria, Scandanavia and the Netherlands white bellied hedgehogs
                ( span class="wiss" Atelerix albiventris  span ), desert hedgehogs ( span class="wiss" Paraechinus aethiopicus  span )
                and longeared hedgehogs ( span class="wiss" Hemiechinus auritus  span ) are bred and offered for sale in pet shops,
                in the internet or directely by breeders. German owners of exotic hedgehogs who are skilled try to house
                them as appropriate to the speciesbig as possible in big terrariums, to give them alternations, care for them
                appropriate and feed them well-balanced on basis of scientific knowledge.  p 
 p For mistreated, behaviourally disturbed and "superfluous" dwarf hedgehogs cares in USA a spezial
                organisation, in Germany some breeders undertake the task to take in needy white bellied hedgehogs,
                care for them and possibly convey them.  p 
 p Hedgehog owners in some countries allied to associations and or breeder clubs, an "International Hedgehog Club"
                has been formed too. Also there is an "International Hedgehog Register", which wants to maintain the "quality"
                of the animals.  p 
 p Pro Igel refers that all species of hedgehog are completely unsuitable as domestic pets, not only because
                they are nocturnal animals and have specific needs with regard to care and nutrition, but also because of
                their high demands for care and nutrition. Furthermore their impulse to move around is formidable
                restricted by imprisoning them in a cage or a terrarium.  p 
 p For those people who already own these animals, we have included some addresses in our list of
                 a class="nav2" href=".. igel-links igel-links.html" Links  a  where at least they may be able to get advice
                on how to care for these hedgehogs properly.  p 
 p We refer also dedicated hedgehog conservationists and animal lovers who may be asked about exotic hedgehogs
                as pets, to the field report of Dr. Ditte and Giovanni Bandini, which you can access under
                 a href=". booklets.html" Booklets online  a .  p 
 p  a href=". booklets.html" back to "Hedgehogs' help &amp; veterinarians' info"  a   p 
 p  span class="h4" Copyright 1996-2013 Pro Igel e.V.  span   p 
