 p Daily and Weekly newsletters available.  p 
 p When 8 year-old Judson King decided he wanted his favorite video game character for a pet three years ago, it wasn't just some fleeting phase based on fantastical whims like it would be for most youngsters. No, the boy's infatuation with Sonic the Hedgehog set a chain of events in motion that would end up actually changing Kansas law.After playing the videogame Sonic the Hedgehog, King became bent on acquiring a hedgehog of his own as a pet. (Can't say we blame him: the hedgehog made our list of the  a href="https:  www.treehugger.com files 2008 12 seven-darn-cute-baby-animal-photos.php?page=2" 7 cutest animals on the web  a ) But hedgehogs are banned by state law in Kansas--likely enough to stop any kid too young to head to a PG-13 movie alone. But according to  a href="http:  www.ktka.com news 2009 jan 02 11yearold_fights_city_hall_and_wins " KTKA news  a , King instead spent his nights doing research and drafting letters to his local city hall.  p 
 p In 2008, the city commission finally put his letter on the agenda, and before long, the 11-year old boy was standing in front of the city commission. He apparently showed up wearing a suit and tie, and briefed the commission with a slew of facts about hedgehogs. The council couldn't find any reason to maintain the ban--they couldn't seem to find why it existed in the first place--and lo, hedgehog pet ownership was legalized in Lawrence, Kansas.  p 
 p Guess it's a good thing he wasn't a diehard SpongeBob fan--that one might've been harder to work out.  p 
 p  strong Why There Might Have Been a Ban  strong  br It's a neat story, sure--but here are some reasons why such a ban might've existed:  p 
 p 1.	Hedgehogs are tough pets to keep: they're insectivores, so feeding them properly can present difficulties to families accustomed to feeding pets kibble or canned food. They're also nocturnal, and require a lot of space to roam (they have trouble adapting to enclosed areas)--and thus relatively difficult to care for. They don't have much resistance to climate variation either. For these reasons, they have a high mortality rate, as far as mammalian pets go.  p 
 p 2.	The species is threatened in some countries. They're protected in Spain and France, and the  a href="https:  www.treehugger.com files 2007 08 now_endangered.php" hedgehog is endangered in England  a .  p 
 p 3.	The hedgehog isn't endemic to North America--which means buying one for your home is encouraging an overseas pet trade.  p 
 p That said, there are far worse  a href="http:  planetgreen.discovery.com go-green green-pets green-pets-basics.html" pets  a  to keep--and that little hedgehog really is pretty darn cute.  p 
 p  strong More on Pets:  strong  br  a href="https:  www.treehugger.com files 2008 03 survey-green-your-pet.php" Survey: Do You Green Your Pet ? : TreeHugger  a  br  a href="https:  www.treehugger.com files 2006 04 plant_me_pets.php" Plant Me Pets  a  br  a href="https:  www.treehugger.com files 2007 09 goat_seattle.php" Seattle Councilman Wants Goats Recognized as Pets  a   p 
