 p Are you passionate about hedgehogs? At AnimalWised we are great lovers of this small mammal with short spikes and a pointy nose. It is an independent and beautiful animal that, without a doubt, has an  strong adorable and unique appearance  strong .  p 
 p In this complete guide, we will review the different  strong types of hedgehogs  strong  so you can learn about their specific physical traits, where to find them and some fun facts about them.  p 
 p Keep reading this article to discover the most common types of hedgehogs and be amazed by the  strong Erinaceidae  strong  family and everything related to them.  p 
 p The  strong European hedgehog  strong  or  em Erinaceus europaeus  em  lives in various western and northern European countries such as Italy, Spain, France and the United Kingdom, among others. It is also known as "common hedgehog".  p 
 p It usually measures between 20 and 30 cm (around 10 in) long, having an overall brown-black appearance, although some rare cases are blonde. The European hedgehog inhabits  strong wooded areas  strong , has an omnivorous diet, and can live up to 10 years.  p 
 p The strong  southern white-breasted hedgehog  strong  or  em Erinaceus concolor  em  has a very similar appearance to the European hedgehog but differs by having a white spot on its belly or its chest. It is found in Eastern Europe and Western Asia.  p 
 p Unlike the European hedgehog, the southern white-breasted hedgehog doesn't dig, but prefers to make a nest of grass. Otherwise, their habits are very similar.  p 
 p The  strong northern white-breasted hedgehog  strong  or  em Erinaceus roumanicus  em  is found throughout Eastern Europe, although its presence has spread to Russia, Ukraine and the Caucasus.  p 
 p Although from the outside it reminds us of the common European hedgehog, like the southern one it also has a white chest. Moreover, it differs from the two previous species by its somewhat different jaw.  p 
 p The  strong Amur hedgehog  strong  or  em Erinaceus amurensis  em  lives in South-Eastern Russia, Korea and China. It measures about 30 cm (12 in) long and has a pale brown appearance. Its behavior is similar to that of the common hedgehog.  p 
 p The  strong four-toed hedgehog  strong , African pygmy hedgehog or  em Atelerix albiventris  em  comes from sub-Saharan Central Africa and inhabits savanna areas and crop fields.  p 
 p Their body is completely white, which emphasizes their dark head. The four-toed hedgehog has very short legs, and as its name makes clear, it only has four toes. They are  strong smaller than other hedgehogs  strong , at about 20 cm (8 in) long.  p 
 p Four-toed hedgehogs can swim and climb, and they can be strong  quite noisy and active  strong .  p 
 p Next on our list is the  strong North African hedgehog  strong  or  em Atelerix algirus  em . Smaller than the previous type of hedgehog, as it tends to not surpass 20 centimeters (8 in) in length.  p 
 p The North African hedgehog lives across North Africa, including Morocco and Algeria, and currently remains in the wild along the Mediterranean coast including Valencia and Catalonia. It has a light coloring and  strong doesn't have any spines on the crown  strong  of its head.  p 
 p The  strong Somali hedgehog  strong  or  em Atelerix sclateri  em  is indeed endemic to Somalia. It has a white belly ,while its legs are usually black or brown.  p 
 p The  strong Southern African hedgehog  strong  or  em Atelerix frontalis  em  is a brownish hedgehog living in southern African countries like Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, among others.  p 
 p While taking note of its black legs and overall brown tone, the Southern African hedgehog has a very  strong distinctive white stripe   strong on its forehead. Like most hedgehogs, the Southern African one hibernates and has an omnivorous diet mostly based on insects.  p 
 p Next on the list of types of hedgehogs is the  strong long-eared hedgehog  strong  or  em Hemiechinus auritus  em . The long-eared hedgehog is native to the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean and some arid areas of East Asia; it has a very wide range, but it always prefers moderate climates.  p 
 p The long-eared hedgehog is noted because of its long ears and short spikes, which it prefers to  strong release and then flee  strong , rather than curling up into a ball as a form of defense. It is really fast, much more than the common hedgehog.  p 
 p Although its name is very similar to the previous hedgehog, the  strong Indian long-eared hedgehog  strong  or  em Hemiechinus collaris  em  is very different. It inhabits the arid regions of Pakistan and Northwestern India.  p 
 p It is relatively small and has dark colors. It is interesting to note that this hedgehog performs a ritual dance to impress the female over more than one day.  p 
 p The  strong Daurian hedgehog  strong  or  em Mesechinus dauuricus  em  is a lonely little hedgehog that lives in Russia and northern Mongolia. It is between 15 and 20 cm (6 to 8 in) long and is protected in those countries.  p 
 p Image from combinacionanimal blog  p 
 p Next on our list is  strong Hugh's hedgehog  strong , central Chinese hedgehog or  em Mesechinus hughi  em  and it is endemic to the steppes of central China.  p 
 p The  strong desert hedgehog  strong  or  em Paraechinus aethiopicus  em  is particularly small - about 15 cm (6 in) long - and very difficult to harm, as it curls itself up into a ball that protrudes its long quills in all directions. Its colors vary between dark and light.  p 
 p It is found in the desert areas of North Africa and the Middle East.  p 
 p The  strong Indian hedgehog  strong  or  em Paraechinus micropus  em  is native to India and Pakistan and has a patch or spot on its face like a raccoon's mask. It lives in high mountain areas where water is readily available.  p 
 p It measures about 15 cm (6 in) and is quite fast, but not as fast as the long-eared hedgehog. This hedgehog also has a varied diet that includes frogs and toads.  p 
 p The  strong Brandt's hedgehog  strong  or  em Paraechinus hypomelas  em  measures about 25 cm (10 in) long and has large ears and a dark body. You can find it in parts of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Yemen. When threatened, it tends to curl itself up into a ball. However, it also uses a "jumping" attack to surprise its attackers.  p 
 p We have left the  strong bare-bellied hedgehog   strong  or  em Paraechinus nudiventris  em  to last spot in our list of types of hedgehogs, as for a time it was believed that they had become extinct until recently when some were found in India.  p 
 p Unfortunately, we don't have a picture of this kind of hedgehog. If you have one, please send it below in the comments section for it to be published.  p 
 p Do you like hedgehogs? What is your favorite type of hedgehog?  p 
 p Here you can learn more about  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com keeping-a-hedgehog-as-a-pet-239.html" keeping a hedgehog as a pet  a  and the  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com differences-between-hedgehogs-and-porcupines-260.html" differences between hedgehogs and porcupines  a .  p 
 p If you want to read similar articles to  strong Types of Hedgehogs - A Complete Guide  strong , we recommend you visit our  a href="https:  www.animalwised.com before-adopting comparisons" class="ga" data-category="Post" data-event="categoria ultimo paso" Comparisons  a  category.  p 
