 p class="published" 
        Posted 
     span class="timestamp" 
      April 07, 2016 15:01:05
      span 
        p 
 p A cafe with a point of difference has opened up in Tokyo.  p 
 p Visitors to a new cafe in the Japanese capital's Roppongi entertainment district can now cuddle one of the 20 to 30 hedgehogs of different breeds that are kept in glass tanks.  p 
 p Customers can pay 1,000 yen ($12) on weekdays or 1,300 yen ($15.60) on holidays for an hour of playing with one of the tiny mammals.  p 
 p Harry — a play on the animal's name in Japanese — is the latest animal-themed cafe to open in the country which also has outlets catering for lovers of cats, rabbits, owls, hawks, snakes and even penguins.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are not native to Japan but have long been sold in the island nation, where less than 20 per cent of households are estimated to have a pet.  p 
 p "All of these hedgehogs are friendly even though some of them might spike you," said Anna Cheung, 11, a visitor from Britain.  p 
 p    p 
 p Staffer Mizuki Murata, who also works in a rabbit cafe in the same building, said the shop had been popular since its February opening, with customers often having to queue.  p 
 p "We wanted to show people the charm of hedgehogs, which give the impression of being hard to handle. We wanted to get rid of that image by letting people touch them," Ms Murata said.  p 
 p "The cutest thing about hedgehogs is getting them to finally open up and show you their face."  p 
 p Harry is not the first to offer hedgehogs, with the rabbit-themed Ms Bunny, also in the Roppongi district, often having the small mammals available to be played with.  p 
 p In Australia, cat-themed cafes have opened in several Australian cities.  p 
 p The first known cat cafe opened in Taiwan in 1998, and they are now popular in Japan and a number of European countries.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong ABC Reuters  strong   p 
 p class="topics" 
	 strong Topics:  strong 
	
	 a href=" news topic animals" animals  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic japan" japan  a 
	
  p 
 p If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news,  a href=" news contact tip-off " target="_self" title="" contact the ABC  a .  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.abc.net.au news about backstory " target="_self" title="" ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  about.abc.net.au how-the-abc-is-run what-guides-us abc-editorial-standards " target="_self" title="" Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.  a   p 
 p class="title" 
        Huw Parkinson  p 
 p Insiders' Huw Parkinson captures the last moments of "the Fixer" as he prepares to depart, bidding farewell to his good friend Vader.  p 
 p By pulling the panic lever, Tony Abbott gives Zali Steggall and Bill Shorten easy wins with the election looming, writes Michelle Grattan.  p 
 p class="title" 
        By South Asia correspondent  a href=" news siobhan-heanue 166962" target="_self" title="" Siobhan Heanue  a   p 
 p He went to India 20 years ago for a holiday, but never came home. Now he's a cannabis-smoking holy man who can no longer remember his name.   p 
 p class="title" 
        By  a href=" news robert-burton-bradley 9925634" target="_self" title="" Robert Burton-Bradley  a   p 
 p Mandarin and calligraphy lessons, or agents of foreign influence and attacks on academic freedom — a rising chorus of concern in the West has put a spotlight on China's Confucius Institutes in Australia.  p 
 p 
           small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small 
          p 
 p 
           small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small 
          p 
