 p  strong HEDGEHOG   strong ( em ḵār-pošt  em ,  em juja-tiḡi  em ,  em čula  em ;  a class="pretty" title="Figure 1. Long-eared hedgehog (Hemiechinus auritus). By permission of E. Firouz (The Complete Fauna of Iran, London and New York, 2005, p. 49)." href=" uploads files hedgehog.jpg" Figure 1  a ,  a class="pretty" title="Figure 2. Long-eared hedgehog, Hemiechinus auretus auritus. (Photograph © Shahab Cheraghi)" href=" uploads files Animals hedgehog-fig02.jpg" Figure 2  a ), member of the Erinaceinae sub-family of the Erinaceidae family of insectivores; animals the size of a small rabbit, the hairs of the upper body of which are modified and clumped to form stiff, sharp spines. A sheet of muscle beneath the skin of the back keeps these spines erect and also allows the animal to roll into a defensive ball, thus protecting its head, limbs, tail, and belly from attack.  p 
 p The following four species of hedgehog can be found in Persia; at least two of them can also be found in Afghanistan, while three of them can be found in an area extending into the Central Asian republics to the north, as indicated below (nomenclature follows Hutterer, 1992, after Corbet, 1988, and Frost et al., 1991):  p 
 p  em Erinaceus concolor   em (Martin, 1838). In addition to Persia, this species is found in eastern Europe, southern Russia, and western Siberia as far as the River Ob, Asia Minor as far as Israel, and the Greek and Adriatic Islands. (It had previously been included among the  em E. europaeus,  em  or “European hedgehog” species.)  p 
 p  em Hemiechinus (Paraechinus) aethiopicus   em (Ehrinberg, 1832), or “Ethiopian hedgehog.” It is found in southeastern Iran as well as the Sahara from Mauritania to Egypt and Awash, Ethiopia, and the deserts of Arabia; there are also insular populations on Djerba (Tunisia), Bahrain, and Tanb (Persian Gulf). The species and subspecies arrangement of the Ethiopian hedgehog remains unclear.  p 
 p  em Hemiechinus (Hemiechinus) auritus  em  (Gmelin, 1770), or “Long-eared hedgehog.” It is found in the Steppe zone from eastern Ukraine to Mongolia in the north, and from Libya to western Pakistan in the south.  em Hemiechinus megalotis  em , formerly regarded as a distinct species, integrates with  em H. auritus  em  in Afghanistan (see Niethammer, 1973).  p 
 p  em Hemiechinus (Paraechinus) hypomelas  em  (Brandt, 1836), and known as “Brandt’s hedgehog.” It is found in arid steppe and desert zones, from Iran and Turkmenistan eastwards almost as far as Tashkent (Uzbekistan), and southwards to the Indus River and northern Pakistan; there are also isolated populations in Oman, near Aden, and on the islands of Tanb and Ḵārg in the Persian Gulf. This species includes  em H. blanfordi  em  as a distinct subspecies (see Corbet, 1988, p.155).  p 
 p Biogeographically,  em E. concolor  em , a temperate Eurasian species, is the hedgehog of the well-watered forest, shrub-land, and agricultural areas of northwestern and northern Iran through to the Alborz region.  em H. hypomelas  em , a species belonging to the eastern Iranian Plateau, is widespread throughout the country south of the area occupied by  em E. concolor  em .  em H. auritus  em , a Western Palearctic steppe species, occurs around the peripheries of the Central Plateau, including Ḵuzestān and Sistān, while  em H. aethiopicus  em , a North African Arabian desert species, has a scattered distribution in Baluchistan and the islands of the Persian Gulf.  p 
 p The various species of hedgehogs are found in deciduous woodlands, cultivated fields, and desert regions. They are primarily nocturnal. Hedgehogs are omnivorous, but they prefer animal food; they consume a wide variety of insects and other arthropods, as well as birds eggs, small mammals, lizards, and snakes (they are said to be resistant to snake venom). Hibernation in dens in the ground or rock crevices is a characteristic of the species of the genus  em Erinaceus  em , and at least some of the desert species ( em Hemiechinus  em ) aestivate (lie dormant during hot, dry periods) in well-constructed burrows. Most species of hedgehog seem to be solitary, apart from during the breeding season. Up to seven are born at a time in nests of grass or other soft vegetation after a gestation period of about a month. They are born with eyes closed, and their spines do not harden until about three weeks have passed. Populations of hedgehogs appear to be quite dense in some areas, particularly agricultural regions. They have adjusted well to living in the vicinity of human activity. Roads appear to be a major hazard, and road-kill carcasses can be numerous in areas where there is a large population of hedgehogs. They may be of minor economic importance in agricultural areas, where they prey on insects, such as locusts. They also serve as food for larger predators, such as owls, foxes, wolves, wild cats, leopards, bears and, probably, hyenas, which can overcome their sole means of defense.  p 
 p In general, few detailed studies of the natural history of the hedgehogs of Persia and Afghanistan have ever been carried out, and apparently none at all has been undertaken in those countries themselves.  p 
 p    p 
 p  em Bibliography:  em   p 
 p G. B. Corbet,  em The Mammals of the Palaearctic Region: a Taxonomic Review  em , British Museum (Natural History), London, 1978.  p 
 p Idem,  em The Mammals of the Palaearctic Region: a Taxonomic Review–Supplement,  em  British Museum (Natural History), London, 1984.  p 
 p Idem, “The Family Erinaceidae: a synthesis of its taxonomy, phylogeny, ecology and zoogeography,”  em Mammal Review  em  18, 1988, pp. 117-72.  p 
 p D. R. Frost, W. C. Wozencraft, and R. S. Hoffman, “Phylogenetic relationships of hedgehogs and gymnures (Mammalia: Insectivora: Erinaceidae),” em  Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology  em  518, 1991, pp. 1-69.  p 
 p E. B. Giagia and J. C. Ondria, “Karyological analysis of the eastern European hedgehog  em Erinaceus concolor  em  (Mammalia, Insectivora) in Greece,”  em Mammalia  em  44, 1980, pp. 59-71.  p 
 p I. M. Gromov and G. I. Baranova eds.,  em Katalog mlekopitayushchikh SSSR  em  [Catalogue of Mammals of the USSR], Leningrad, 1981.  p 
 p I. M. Gromov, A. A. Gureev, G. A. Novikov, I. I. Sokolov, P. P. Strelkov, and K. K. Chapskiĭ,  em Mlekopitayushchie fauny SSSR  em  [Mammals of the fauna of the USSR], Moskva, 1963, I (Insectivora, Chiroptera, Lagomorpha, and Rodentia), pp. 1-640.  p 
 p A. A. Gureev,  em Fauna SSSR: Mlekopitayutshchie  em  [Fauna of the USSR, Mammals], Leningrad, 1979, IV 2 (Insectivores: Mammalia, Insectivora).  p 
 p Fred A. Harrington,  em A Guide to the Mammals of Iran  em , Tehran, 1977.  p 
 p David L. Harrison,  em Mammals of the Arabian Gulf,  em  London, 1981.  p 
 p Jerry D. Hassinger, “Introduction to the mammal survey of the 1965 Street Expedition to Afghanistan,”  em Fieldiana: zoology  em  55 1, 1968, pp. 1-81.  p 
 p Rainer Hutterer, “Order Insectivora,” pp. 69-133, in D. E. Wilson and D. M. Reeder, eds.,  em Mammal Species of the World: a Taxonomic and Geographic Reference  em , Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 1993.  p 
 p B. Kral, “Karyological analysis of two European species of the genus  em Erinaceus  em ,”  em Zoologicheskiĭ Listy  em  16, 1967, pp. 239-52.  p 
 p J. Kratochvil, “Zur Kenntniss der Igel der Gattung  em Erinaceus  em  in der CSSR (Insectivora, Mamm.),”  em Zoologicheskiĭ Listy  em , 24, 1975, pp. 297-312.  p 
 p Douglas M. Lay, “A study of the mammals of Iran resulting from the Street Expedition of 1962-63,”  em Fieldiana: zoology   em 54, 1967, pp. 1-282.  p 
 p I. A. Nader, “Breeding records of the long-eared hedgehog  em Hemiechinus auritus  em  (Gmelin),”  em Mammalia  em  32 3, 1968, pp. 28-30.  p 
 p J. Niethammer, “Zur Kenntniss der Igel (Erinaceidae) Afghanistans,”  em Zeitschrift für Saugetierkunde  em  38, 1973, pp. 271-76.  p 
 p D. J. Osborn and I. Helmy, “The contemporary land mammals of Egypt (including Sinai),”  em Fieldiana: zoology  em , N.S. 5, 1980, pp. 1-579.  p 
 p V. N. Orlov, “Khromosomnye nabory ëzheĭ vostochnoĭ Evropy” [Chromosomal complements of hedgehogs in eastern Europe], in  em Materialy ko II Vsesoyuznomu Teriologicheskemu Soveshchaniyu po mlekopitayushchym  em  [Materials in II All-Union Theriological Conference about Mammals], Novosibirsk, 1969, pp. 6-7.  p 
 p I. Ya. Pavlinov and O. L. Rossolimo,  em Sistimatika mlekopitayushchikh SSSR  em  [Syste-matics of the Mammals of the USSR], Moscow, 1987.  p 
 p D. E. Wilson and D. M. Reeder, eds.,  em Mammal Species of the World, a Taxonomic and Geographic Reference  em , Smithsonian Institution, Washington, 1993.  p 
 p Hooshang Ziaie,  em A Field Guide to the Mammals of Iran,  em  Tehran, 1996.  p 
 p (Steven C. Anderson)  p 
 p Originally Published: December 15, 2003  p 
 p Last Updated: March 22, 2012  p 
 p This article is available in print. br Vol. XII, Fasc. 2, pp. 135-136  p 
 p "With several dachshunds, we went to the sandhills where the porcupine holes had been found. We sat while the hounds drew the holes. The whole day long those dogs went in and out of the holes trying to dislodge the occupants, and getting very badly wounded for their pains. We were kept quite busy taking the quills out of the poor little dogs, and bathing their wounds; we ran out of water, and had to use mineral water we had brought for our lunch.” Finally the Cossacks were ordered to demolish the hole. The porcupines fled pursued by the dogs; I shot at one but missed. Somebody then grabbed its hind legs and killed it with a knife, “and then I was told that it was not possible to eat porcupine."  br 
 br 
  p 
 p From my:  em Games Persians Play  em  [W. Floor,  em Games Persians Play: A History of Games and Pastimes in Iran from Hide-and-Seek to Hunting  em ,  Washington, D.C., 2011]						  p 
 p class="tag-margin" Submitted tags will be reviewed by site administrator before it is posted online. br If you enter several tags, separate with commas.  p 
 p class="tag-margin" (Optional) Enter email address if you would like feedback about your tag.  p 
