 p class="speakable"  Beijing currently has about 50 of the super-cute black and white furballs loaned out to zoos across the world -- and almost all the recent loans have been to countries that have signed major trade and foreign investment deals with China.   p 
 p class="speakable"  It works like this: Agree to export key  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 04 11 technology fracking-china-shell.pr.fortune index.html" energy  a  technology to China; get a panda. Supply Beijing with the uranium it needs to power nuclear reactors; get a panda. Sign a free trade agreement with China; get a panda.   p 
 p  The  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 08 13 news economy china-oil-imports index.html" trading partners  a  even pay China a fee for the pandas, which are a hot item that draw customers to zoos.   p 
 p  "Panda loans are associated with nations supplying China with  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 06 13 news economy europe-china-steel index.html" valuable resources  a  and technology and symbolize China's willingness to build  i guanxi  i  -- namely, deep trade relationships characterized by trust, reciprocity, loyalty and longevity," according to a recent paper by researchers at Oxford University.   p 
 p  Take Scotland. In early 2011, China negotiated multi-billion dollar agreements with Scotland for the supply of salmon and petrochemical and  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 07 29 news economy china-eu-trade index.html" renewable energy technology  a . And in return? China loaned a pair of its pandas to the Edinburgh Zoo.   p 
 p   a href="http:  money.cnn.com gallery news economy 2013 10 14 china-panda-business index.html"  span class="inStoryHeading" Related story: How China's booming panda business works  span   a    p 
 p  What did China get out of the deal?  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 08 30 news economy apache-sinopec-egypt index.html" Oil drilling technology  a , said Oxford University's Kathleen Buckingham. "That's what China is investing in. It's not exactly investing in the U.K. as a whole; it's investing in Scotland for the technology and the resources."   p 
 p  Beijing has also been handing out pandas to countries that supply the uranium needed to reach its  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 09 13 news china-pollution index.html" ambitious nuclear energy  a  targets.   p 
 p  Canada and France both signed multi-billion dollar uranium export  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 07 29 news economy china-eu-trade index.html" deals  a  that coincided with panda loans to the two countries. Australia -- which holds the world's largest uranium reserves -- received a pair of pandas in 2009 after agreeing to supply uranium to China in 2006.   p 
 p  Other countries with panda loans, such as Singapore and Thailand, have inked free-trade agreements with China. The same goes for Malaysia -- all papers have been signed, and the country will soon receive its first pair of pandas.   p 
 p  The panda-for-resources swap is a trend that is likely to grow, especially as China's rapidly expanding economy drives demand for outside resources even higher. There is no shortage of interest in the pandas, either.   p 
 p  "There seems to be a backlog of countries clamoring for pandas," Buckingham said.   p 
 p  Not all of China's major  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 08 13 news economy china-oil-imports index.html" trading partners  a  have been lucky enough to land a panda. Buckingham said this is because the value of the animals is tied to their rarity -- the same reason that diamonds or gold are prized commodities.   p 
 p  "Every zoo has a lion or tiger, but not a panda," she said. "China needs to remain selective in its choice of panda-receiving countries in order to maintain the rarity, and therefore, their value."   p 
 p   a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 08 13 news economy china-oil-imports index.html"  span class="inStoryHeading" Related story: China set to pass U.S. as top oil importer  span   a    p 
 p  Strategically handing out pandas to curry favor isn't exactly a new phenomenon.   p 
 p  When Mao Zedong was in power, pandas were gifted to the leaders of the former Soviet Union, North Korea, U.S. and the U.K. From 1972 to 1974, China gifted 24 pandas as "goodwill ambassadors."   p 
 p  But as the power of pandas as a diplomatic and business tool grew, so did the business of pandas.   p 
 p  In the 1980s, as China sought to open up its economy, "all of a sudden they needed dollars, so they had people trying to peddle short-term loans of pandas," said Dave Towne, president of the Giant Panda Conservation Foundation. A pair of pandas were available for a monthly rental fee of $100,000.   p 
 p  After conservationists and watchdogs objected, China instituted reforms that extended loan periods and put a greater emphasis on research.   p 
 p   a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 09 30 news panda-cam-national-zoo index.html"  span class="inStoryHeading" Related story: 'Panda cam' goes dark in shutdown  span   a    p 
 p  Nowadays, approved zoos must still pay fees to China for the privilege of having pandas. A pair costs about $1 million a year, though some agreements may differ. Although caring for a panda can get expensive and zoos often sink additional dollars into conservation projects, they're able to offset some costs as  a href="http:  money.cnn.com 2013 09 30 news panda-cam-national-zoo index.html" visitors flock  a  to see the pandas.   p 
 p  The panda swap can also cut in the other direction.   p 
 p  The United States, for example, lost two American-born panda cubs in 2010 after President Obama took a meeting with the Dalai Lama over Chinese objections. The cubs -- which China owns regardless of birthplace -- were quickly recalled.   p 
 p  "[China] values pandas as their number one animal," said Suzanne Gendron, director of Hong Kong's Ocean Park Conservation Foundation. "You wouldn't want to give a panda to someone you don't trust."   p 
 p 
        Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: © 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&amp;P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard &amp; Poor's and S&amp;P are registered trademarks of Standard &amp; Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 and or its affiliates.
          p 
 p ©  span class="footer-year" 2018  span  Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
         br 
        CNN Sans™ &amp; © 2016 Cable News Network.  p 
