 p  a href="https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda.jpg"  img class="alignleft size-full wp-image-754" src="https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda.jpg" alt="" width="800" height="533" srcset="https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda.jpg 800w, https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda-300x200.jpg 300w, https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda-768x512.jpg 768w, https:  blogs.helsinki.fi chinastudies files 2017 05 800px-Grosser_Panda-450x300.jpg 450w" sizes="(max-width: 800px) 100vw, 800px"  br 
  a   p 
 p    p 
 p Source of image:  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki File:Grosser_Panda.JPG"  u Wiki  u   a   p 
 p  em Written by Katia Scicchitano  em   p 
 p Soft power is nowadays a fundamental part of international relations. Not only China but also countless countries are interested in increasing their soft power in order to reach an influential position in international environment. Joseph Nye, American political scientist is the first person to propose the term to describe countries that use soft power without coercion, force or money to persuade others to like them. While hard power is related to military and economic means used to force others to consider the interests of a state, soft power refers to different kind of influence. Soft power is about making a country appear friendly and charming in public opinion.  p 
 p China started to use the term soft power in 2007  a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=R6nkFbQ_3LY&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;start=6;autoplay=1;rel=0"  u when the then leader Hu defined the birth of a new young China in relation to its global image  u   a  and the transition from being an emerging power to an actual global power with both strength in international and domestic contexts and admiration from the other countries. China’s need of a soft power strategy was also related to the growing influence of the US in East Asia with its western brands and values, which pushes China to believe that it needs to reaffirm the Chinese tradition and distinctiveness to counter the American influence.  p 
 p The Chinese soft power has a political dimension related to Beijing’s intention to advocate the country’s support for peaceful development,  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Harmonious_Society"  u harmonious society  u   a  (和谐社会), and scientific development domestically and internationally. Chinese president Xi Jinping’s  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki One_Belt,_One_Road"  u One Belt One Road initiative  u   a  is an example of such aspiration in the context of fostering connectivity and cooperation between China and other countries.  p 
 p Soft power can be manifested in art, music, literature, cinema, Chinese traditional medicine and even Confucianism. Confucius Institutes in various countries around the world, for instance, have been facilitating these different aspects of Chinese culture globally. As a result, Chinese New Year is celebrated more and more widely around the world. Internationally known brands from China such as Wish, Huawei, Lenovo and Mi phones are more and more popular in the global market. The Chinese government also invests lots of money into media such as China Daily and CCTV to attract audience from the globe. It appears that China’s soft power works more effectively in the West than among its neighbors with which China has territorial conflicts.  p 
 p Another example of China’s soft power is the usage of cute and captivating images of giant panda to win the hearts of people around the world. China sends giant pandas as diplomatic gifts to other states in order to foster relations and increase China’s soft power in the panda-receiving country. The giant panda or 大熊猫 ( em dà xióng māo  em ) is a bear originated in southern China. According to a 2014 census, there were “ a href="http:  wwf.panda.org what_we_do endangered_species giant_panda panda how_many_are_left_in_the_wild_population "  u 1864 giant pandas alive in the wild  u   a ” excluding dependent young ones. If one includes the dependent young pandas, there would have been around 2060 pandas in total. In 2016, International Union for Conservation of Nature (ICUN) reclassified pandas from “endangered” to “vulnerable” species. Even pandas are no longer endangered, the Chinese government has to keep adopting protective measures in order to ensure their continuous survival. China’s panda diplomacy is a successful strategy to strengthen China’s relations with other countries because panda is a valuable treasure for the whole world and a symbol of the uniqueness of China. Today, 24 zoos in 14 countries have giant pandas (Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Thailand, UK and USA) and the numbers of zoos accepting pandas are still on the rise. The first panda offered as a gift was to the USA in 1972, when China gave the two pandas Ling-Ling and Hsing-Hsing to American president Richard Nixon who reciprocated with a couple of musk oxen. The pandas are considered as an enormous diplomatic success. UK asked pandas from China a few years later; same as other countries enchanted by the exotic animal and its strong appealing image. For example, the picture of former US Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick with a 5-month-old panda in 2006 wasinterpreted as a symbol of China-US cooperation and mutual support.  a href="https:  2001-2009.state.gov r pa ei pix ds2006 59765.htm"  u The deputy was visiting a panda conservation center in Chengdu, Sichuan province, in order to reinforce the cooperation regarding trade, human rights and other current issues  u   a .  p 
 p  a href="http:  chinapower.csis.org is-chinas-soft-power-strategy-working "  u The Panda ambassador is just one of the top–down strategies that China is adopting to increase its soft power around the world, strictly related to the positive global image of the country and its international prestige  u   a . Despite China’s efforts, however, there are critiques about China’s panda diplomacy. For instance, these pandas are not free gifts. In some countries, the panda is offered on ten-year loans of US$1,000,000 per year.  a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=g7uo-MkcEbU"  u There are also concerns that pandas are not really well-protected and are only exploited for China’s commercial and diplomatic ambitions  u   a .  p 
 p    p 
 p  em Written article by Katia Scicchitano, exchange student at University of Helsinki, from University for Foreigners of Siena.  em   p 
 p  em Any opinions expressed in this blog commentary are the opinions of the author(s), and are not the views of or endorsed by the UH Chinese Studies. The accuracy of the Content should not be relied upon and should be independently verified with primary sources of information.   em   p 
 p    p 
