 p class="label" Opening hours  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p class="label" River Safari  p 
 p 10:00am - 7:00pm (Last entry at 6.30pm)  p 
 p class="label" Reservoir Cruise  p 
 p 10.30am - 6.00pm (Last ride at 6.00pm)  p 
 p class="label" Amazon River Quest  p 
 p 11.00am - 6.00pm (Last ride at 6.00pm)  p 
 p The red panda's fiery red coat is no doubt why its name in Chinese literally means 'fire fox'.  p 
 p Journey down the world’s mightiest river that flows through the world’s largest tropical rainforest.  p 
 p Manatees and their dugong cousins are the only aquatic mammals to feed solely on plants.  p 
 p Some of the world’s most critically endangered wildlife reside along Asia’s longest river.   p 
 p Journey down the world’s mightiest river that flows through the world’s largest tropical rainforest.  p 
 p Some of the world’s most critically endangered wildlife reside along Asia’s longest river.   p 
 p The Amazon expands its width from 5 kilometres in the dry months to 50 kilometres during the wet season.  p 
 p Springing from the Himalayas, India’s longest river flows through India and Bangladesh.  p 
 p 4th longest in the world, the ‘Ol’ Man River’ is the most iconic river in the United States.  p 
 p A home away from home
Welcome to the home of Kai Kai and Jia Jia, modeled after their natural habitat in China.  p 
 p Fish as well as a bounty of water-dependent species thrive in and beside rivers.  p 
 p Named after the ancient Kingdom of Kongo, the Congo runs a dramatic and turbulent route.  p 
 p Over 150 species of threatened plants and animals in Queensland, Australia call this river home.  p 
 p Some 60 million people in Asia depend on the Mekong River for their livelihood.  p 
 p Measuring 6,650 km, the Nile meanders through 10 African countries, supporting 360 million people.  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p 80 Mandai Lake Road 
Singapore 729826   p 
 p class="copy"  span © Copyright 2018, Wildlife Reserves Singapore Group. All rights reserved.  span   p 
