 p class="header-promotion__sub-title"  a href=" registration " class="header-promotion__sub-title-link" Sign up to our daily email newsletter  a   p 
 p class="header-meganav__footer-secondary-links"  a href=" registration " Sign up for free  a  span class="divider" |  span  a href=" educational-access " Educational access  a   p 
 p class="header-meganav__blurb" A selection of top articles hand-picked by our editors available only to registered users.  p 
 p class="header-meganav__blurb" Check your subscription package, update your details, renew or upgrade.  p 
 p class="header-meganav__footer-secondary-links"  a href=" activate-subscription " Activate subscription  a   p 
 p class="credit" NurPhoto Getty  p 
 p class="author-byline" By  span class="author" Jasmin Fox-Skelly  span   p 
 p A bear very similar to a panda lived in what’s now Hungary 10 million years ago. The creature ate a similar diet to modern giant pandas, suggesting their unusual bamboo-chewing lifestyle has survived through evolutionary time. The finding also adds to the evidence that pandas originated in Europe, not Asia.  p 
 p The giant panda ( em  a href="http:  eol.org pages 328070 overview" Ailuropoda melanoleuca  a   em ) is only found in forested mountain ranges in central China. It famously eats little but indigestible bamboo, despite having the digestive system of a carnivore, and is one of the world’s most iconic  a href="https:  www.newscientist.com article 2104490-giant-panda-off-endangered-list-as-chinas-conservation-pays-off " vulnerable species  a . This black-and-white bear is the only surviving member of the  a href="https:  www.newscientist.com article dn21845-earliest-member-of-giant-panda-line-found-in-spain " Ailuropodinae subfamily  a , part of the larger  a href="http:  eol.org pages 7664 overview" Ursidae  a  family.  p 
 p Nobody really knows how the giant panda evolved. Few fossils of its relatives have been found, so its lineage is almost as hotly debated as that of humans.
                      p 
 p 
                          p 
 p Now palaeoanthropologist  a href="http:  anthropology.utoronto.ca people faculty david-begun " David Begun  a  at the University of Toronto in Canada has found a set of fossil teeth in the town of Rudabánya, Hungary. The site previously yielded the remains of an  a href="https:  www.newscientist.com article 2079652-key-moments-in-human-evolution-happened-far-from-our-africa-home " ancient great ape called  em Rudapithecus  em   a , a possible ancestor of African great apes and humans.  p 
 p Begun was looking for ancient hominid bones when he spotted the teeth trapped beneath a rhino’s shoulder blade. The teeth are 10 million years old, placing them in the late Miocene.  p 
 p Suspecting they belonged to a panda, based on their shape, Begun enlisted the help of  a href="http:  iphep.labo.univ-poitiers.fr index.php en people de-bonis-louis-eng" Louis de Bonis  a  at the University of Poitiers in France and  a href="https:  www.researchgate.net profile Juan_Abella" Juan Abella  a  at the State University Santa Elena Peninsula in Ecuador.  p 
 p The team compared the shape, structure and wear patterns of the teeth with those of other bears. Such wear patterns, created when food being chewed scrapes away some tooth enamel, can reveal what an animal ate – and in this case they were similar to those of giant pandas. “Both species consumed tough plant foods, requiring shearing rather than crushing of food during chewing,” says de Bonis. “This tell us that the way of life of the panda’s ancestors was very similar to the modern panda.”  p 
 p The teeth belonged to a previously unknown panda, and the team has named the species  em Miomaci panonnicum.  em  “ em Miomaci  em  could be considered not like a direct ancestor, but more like a ‘cousin’ of the modern panda,” says de Bonis. “Their lineage probably separated in the middle Miocene period.”  p 
 p “From the description, it appears to be closer to the split between giant pandas and the rest of the carnivores, including bears,” says  a href="https:  www.researchgate.net profile Russell_Ciochon" Russell Ciochon  a  at the University of Iowa. “The fossil they found lacks the very specialised dental anatomy found in modern giant pandas, which evolved in southern China around 2 million years ago, and is believed to be when pandas became dependent on bamboo.”  p 
 p Since giant pandas are confined to China, we had assumed that the panda family has been living there since shortly after it split off from other bears. Some fossils support that idea. Asian caves have yielded teeth from  em  a href="https:  doi.org 10.1111 j.1469-7998.1915.tb07605.x" Ailuropoda baconi  a   em , which lived 750,000 years ago, and a skull from  a href="http:  dx.doi.org 10.1073 pnas.0704198104"  em Ailuropoda microta  em   a  from 2 million years ago. Fossil pandas can be found in China as far back as 8 million years ago.  p 
 p However, in 2012 scientists found teeth from possibly  a href="https:  www.newscientist.com article dn21845-earliest-member-of-giant-panda-line-found-in-spain " the oldest known direct ancestor of the giant panda  a ,  em Kretzoiarctos beatrix  em . They were 11.6 million years old and were  a href="http:  dx.doi.org 10.3989 egeol.40714.182" discovered in Spain  a , suggesting the giant panda’s ancestors originated in Europe before migrating to Asia. The  em Miomaci  em  teeth support that idea.  p 
 p “There are interesting similarities between animal fossils found in some European and Chinese sites in the late Miocene period, suggesting that there may have been a lot of travelling between the two areas,” says Begun.  p 
 p “The direct lineage of the extant giant panda is likely to be Asian, but related to the older European forms, which are extinct sister lineages,” says Abella.  p 
 p “Because apes migrated from Rudabánya to mainland Asia, it proves that a migration route was possible,” says Ciochon. “However, without more data we can’t determine if an early giant panda evolved in Asia and moved to Europe, or travelled in the other direction.”  p 
 p Climate may have played a role. When  em Miomaci  em  lived, Europe was warmer and wetter than it is today. The chemical make-up of other teeth from Rudabánya suggest the area was once  a href="https:  doi.org 10.1016 j.palaeo.2016.04.036" a lush subtropical forest on the shores of a lake  a .  p 
 p Such forests disappeared from Europe about 5 million years ago, and this may have spelled the demise of European pandas. “The environment cooled and dried out,” says de Bonis. “There was a change in the faunas in Europe, and the species linked to dense warm forest disappeared.” China could have been the only congenial home for surviving pandas.  p 
 p class="references" Journal reference:  i Geobios  i ,  a href="http:  dx.doi.org 10.1016 j.geobios.2017.09.003" DOI: 10.1016 j.geobios.2017.09.003  a   p 
 p More on these topics:   p 
 p class="print-headline"  a href="https:  www.newscientist.com 2151961-autosave-v1 " A shorter version of this article  a  was published in  em New Scientist  em  magazine on 4 November 2017  p 
