 p style="padding-left:20px; text-align:left; font: bold 16px 'PT Sans',Times; color:#ffffff;" Regiony:  p 
 p style="padding-left:20px; text-align:left; font:bold 16px 'PT Sans',Times; color:#ffffff;" Kraje:  p 
 p class="hr_dots"    p 
 p class="STRESZCZENIE" align="justify"  i  span lang="EN-GB" China’s “panda diplomacy”—loaning the animals
to other countries—has become one of its key instruments to enhance its image.
Chairman Xi Jinping eagerly uses the practice to alleviate tensions in
bilateral ties and reduce partners’ concerns about his country’s activities.
What is more, China utilises this instrument both to signal dissatisfaction
with other countries’ policies and to highlight the importance of a given
country to Chinese diplomacy, as well as to acquire capital and know-how through
joint panda research.  span   i   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span lang="EN-GB" Pandas are a symbol of China, since most of them
live in the country. At the same time, they are treated by its leaders as a
unique foreign policy tool. Under Xi, Chinese authorities have more often than under
previous leader offered pandas to other states. China is not the only country
to use animals in its diplomacy—Australia gives koalas, Sri Lanka offers elephants—but
it seems to have developed this specific foreign policy instrument the best. Decisions
about sending pandas are taken at a high level and often announced or
implemented during Xi’s foreign visits and meetings. Transport of the pandas,
often by chartered aircraft, is usually accompanied by media coverage. Chinese
and host-country television broadcast the event and pandas with names
associated with peace, development, security, or prosperity are welcomed and
visited by high-level officials, even including heads of state or government.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  b   b  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" Mao Zedong and China’s first prime
minister, Zhou Enlai, are considered the creators of “panda diplomacy.” It dates
to 1957–1959,   span  span style="mso-ansi-language:EN-US" lang="EN-US" when
China began to give pandas to another country, in this case, to the Soviet
Union  span  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" . In the 1960s,
the animals were sent to other countries, including North Korea. China at that
time gave pandas to   span  span style="mso-ansi-language:EN-US" lang="EN-US" fellow
socialist states  span  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" .
This corresponded to the Chinese foreign policy approach known as “leaning to
one side,” which meant the USSR. In that sense, pandas were tools for
confirming ideological proximity and strengthening relations within the socialist
camp.  span style="mso-spacerun:yes"    span   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" The change in
the direction of “panda diplomacy” occurred after the outbreak of ideological
disputes with the Soviet Union. Then, China based its foreign policy on, among
other approaches, the “united front” strategy, which meant cooperation with the
U.S., Japan, and European states against the Soviet Union. After President Richard
Nixon’s historical visit to Beijing in 1972, China gave the U.S. two pandas—the
first time the animals had been sent to a non-communist country. Japan was
given the bears when bilateral ties were normalised. In 1973, pandas were sent to
France, the first Western European country to establish diplomatic ties with the
People’s Republic of China. In subsequent years, animals were given to the UK (1974),
Portugal (1978), and Germany (1980,   span  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:
"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" after Chancellor Helmut Schmidt’s visit to China).  span  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB"    span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  b   b  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" When, after
assuming power as China’s leader, Deng Xiaoping in 1982 announced “an
independent and peaceful foreign policy,” the goals and implementation of
“panda diplomacy” changed as well.   span  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:
"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" The old, mainly ideological goals, were replaced by more
pragmatic aims. After the “opening and reform” policy was initiated, China
needed sanguine external relations and foreign capital. The rules of “panda
diplomacy” were modified. Instead of donating the animals, China began lending
them according to a contract. The agreements are signed between the   span  span lang="EN-GB" China Wildlife Conservation Association (CWCA) and a zoo in the host
country. The loan period is usually 10–15 years.   span  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" Usually, China lends a couple
of animals at an annual fee of about $1 million. The host country is obliged
not only to keep the animals but also to ensure the conditions of their care as
specified by the Chinese side. Any cubs born while in the host-state belong to
China and should return within two to four years after birth. This requirement is
associated with the animals’ declining population and China’s efforts to
protect them, which requires financial resources. The loaned animals also offer
the opportunity for joint research on the species.  span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" The
loan programme does not extend to Taiwan because, the Chinese authorities
argue, it is only possible between states. In 2008, China gave Taiwan two
pandas. Previous attempts to do so in 2001 and 2005 were rebuffed when the
pro-independence Taiwanese governments of the time did not accept the gifts. In
2008, Kuomintang, a nationalist party that has called for improved relations
with the mainland, took power in Taiwan. Even though the pandas were accepted
this time, a sign of China’s political motivations behind the gift was seen in
their names, which meant “unification,” sparking protests in Taiwan.  span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  b   b  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" Since assuming office in 2013, Xi
has loaned pandas to Canada, Malaysia, Belgium, South Korea, and Germany. This
year, agreements were concluded with Finland and Denmark. Xi’s predecessor, Hu
Jintao, lent pandas to eight countries during his 10-year tenure.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" China uses
“panda diplomacy” to emphasise the importance of a given state in Chinese
foreign policy. One example is Malaysia, which received pandas in 2014 on the
40 sup th  sup  anniversary of diplomatic ties between the countries. Malaysia
is one of China’s major allies in Asia and has a large Chinese minority (about
25% of its population). The Malaysian authorities’ disputes with China over
territorial claims in the South China Sea are not high on their agenda. Another
example is Belgium, which received pandas during Xi’s visit to Brussels in
2014. Although the animals were sent to a Belgian zoo, Xi’s visit had an EU aspect—it
was the first time a PRC chairman has visited EU institutions. As a follow-up
to this visit, China published a new document about its policy towards the EU.
In July 2017, during Xi’s visit to Berlin, China handed pandas to Germany. The
bears also are loaned to countries with which China has signed significant
economic contracts.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" The German example
shows that “panda diplomacy” is used to mitigate tensions in bilateral
relations. China-Germany ties deteriorated in 2016 after Chinese attempts to
take over German high-tech companies. Germany along with other states tried to
set up a pan-European investment-screening mechanism or institutions to block
foreign investments   span in the EU. a style="mso-footnote-id:ftn1" href="#_ftn1" name="_ftnref1" title="" [1]  a  Anoth span style="mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-GB" er example is South Korea,
which received pandas in 2014 as a symbol of the improvement in ties under new President
  span  span lang="EN-GB" Park Geun-hye. This gesture might be more broadly seen
as an attempt to curry favour with South Korean authorities and the public in
the context of the U.S. “pivot” to Asia.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span lang="EN-GB" China sometimes uses “panda diplomacy” to express
  span  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" dissatisfaction
with the policy of another country. Malaysia again serves as an example here.
It received its pandas later than planned because China, under public pressure,
was displeased with the investigation of a Malaysian airlines aircraft that
disappeared in March 2014. Most passengers on flight MH370 to Beijing were Chinese.
Some countries like India have not received pandas, and while viewed as important,
they are also difficult partners for China.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" “Panda
diplomacy” also indirectly indicates a country perceived by the Chinese as
prosperous and having scientific and research potential. This is why Finland, where
pandas will be sent at the end of 2017, and Denmark, which signed an agreement during
its prime minister’s visit to China in May, are considered important.   span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  b style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal"   b  span style='mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"' lang="EN-GB" “Panda diplomacy”
is part of China’s strategy to use soft tools in foreign policy. This instrument
is significant given that the global panda population is small—only about 1,800
animals live in the wild and 300 in zoos. In its decisions about where to lend
pandas, China signals the rank of its relations with a particular state. Undoubtedly,
this is a gesture to reach long-term political and economic goals in bilateral
relations. At the same time, China uses pandas to create an image of a peace-loving,
environmentally friendly country that protects its natural heritage. China also
highlights the loans as a win-win for it and the host country. Although host
countries must bear rather high costs related to panda research and protection,
the tremendous popularity of these animals means the zoos can also count on significant
income. It is presumed “panda diplomacy” and other soft-power-related actions will
be used extensively and with more significance with China's greater
international activity, which often is viewed with mistrust.  span   p 
 p class="TEKST" align="justify"  span lang="EN-GB"  span style="mso-spacerun:yes"    span  span style="mso-spacerun:yes"     span  span style="mso-spacerun:yes"    span  span style="mso-spacerun:yes"     span  br clear="all" 

  span   p 
 p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom:0cm;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-align:
justify;line-height:normal;mso-outline-level:1;background:white"  a style="mso-footnote-id:ftn1" href="#_ftnref1" name="_ftn1" title=""  span class="MsoFootnoteReference"  span style="font-size:9.0pt;mso-ascii-font-family:
Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;
mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin"  span style="mso-special-character:footnote"  span class="MsoFootnoteReference"  span style='font-size:9.0pt;line-height:115%;
font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-fareast-font-family:
Calibri;mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman";
mso-ansi-language:PL;mso-fareast-language:EN-US;mso-bidi-language:AR-SA' [1]  span   span   span   span   span   a  span style="font-size:9.0pt;mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;
mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-ansi-language:
EN-US"   span lang="EN-US" M. Przychodniak, “  span  span style='font-size:9.0pt;mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin;
mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman";mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;
mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;mso-font-kerning:18.0pt;mso-ansi-language:
EN-GB;mso-bidi-font-weight:bold' lang="EN-GB" China’s Plans to Strengthen Relations with Germany,”
 i style="mso-bidi-font-style:normal" PISM Bulletin  i , n  span  span style="font-size:9.0pt;mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:
minor-latin;mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;
background:white;mso-ansi-language:EN-US;mso-bidi-font-weight:bold" lang="EN-US" o.  span  span style="font-size:9.0pt;mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri;mso-ascii-theme-font:
minor-latin;mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri;mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;
background:white;mso-ansi-language:EN-US" lang="EN-US"  65 (1005), 5 July 2017,
www.pism.pl.   span   span   p 
 p class="hr_dots" style="clear:both;"    p 
 p class="menu_d_kontakt" 
								 strong The Polish Institute of International Affairs  strong 
								 br  br 
								1a Warecka Street  br 
								p.o. box 1010  br 
								00-950 Warsaw
								 br  br 
								tel.: +48 (22) 556 80 00  br  br 
								fax: +48 (22) 556 80 99  br  br 
								e-mail: pism@pism.pl  br  br 
							  p 
