 p Decades of conservation work in China have paid off for the giant panda, whose status was upgraded Sunday from "endangered" to "vulnerable" due to a population rebound.
                                  p 
 p The news was announced as part of an update to the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), which praised Beijing's efforts.  p 
 p China, however, has refrained from self-congratulation and stressed that the panda—which symbolises wildlife protection efforts worldwide—is still under threat.  p 
 p The number of  a href="https:  phys.org tags giant+pandas " rel="tag" class="textTag" giant pandas  a  in the wild in China has grown by 16.8 percent over a decade, from 1,596 in 2003 to 1,864 in 2013. The number in captivity rose from 164 to 375 in the same period, according to the State Forestry Administration.  p 
 p How has China done this?   p 
 p 1) Creation of nature reserves  p 
 p China has 13 reserves devoted to giant pandas, with the first set up in 1958. They have a dual objective: to prevent poaching of the species and to preserve bamboo forests, which the country has massively replanted. Bamboo constitutes almost the entire diet of a panda—an adult will eat an average 20 kilogrammes (45 pounds) a day. But there is cause for concern: due to global warming, the IUCN predicts that more than a third of bamboo forests could vanish within 80 years.  p 
 p 2) Subsidies for farmers  p 
 p The government pays subsidies to farmers living near the reserves, explains Yang Fuqiang, of the American NGO Natural Resources Defense Council. In return they promise to avoid damaging the environment and refrain from using chemical fertilisers or pesticides. The state also compensates victims of panda attacks, with a farmer badly bitten on the thigh receiving more than 80,000 euros ($89,280) last year.   p 
 p 3) Welcome foreign NGOs  p 
 p For over 30 years China has welcomed international organisations wishing to study pandas. They can provide not just expertise but also media exposure. The first such visit, according to Yang, was in 1979 by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Its world-famous logo features the panda and contributes to its global popularity.  p 
 p 4) Use 'panda loans'  p 
 p By loaning specimens to foreign zoos (Beauval in France, Vienna in Austria, Pairi Daiza in Belgium, for example), often after intense diplomatic negotiations, China makes money which is used for conservation efforts. Currently 40 Chinese pandas are on loan in 15 countries.  p 
 p 5) Don't rest on your laurels (or bamboo)  p 
 p Far from basking in self-congratulation following the IUCN report, China believes that the giant panda "remains in imminent danger". Its forestry department pointed Monday to "destruction of the habitat of the giant panda, which continues to threaten its survival" and limits exchanges between different isolated groups.  p 
 p The administration said increasing exchanges between groups to ensure genetic diversity was a priority, and described the IUCN move to change the panda's status as "premature".
                                                                  p 
 p class="news-relevant" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org WebPage" 
                                         a href="#" id="inl-rel-href"  img class="toolsicon ic-rel" src="https:  cf3e497594.site.internapcdn.net tmpl v5 img 1x1.gif" width="14" height="16" alt=""   a 
                                         b Explore further:  b  
                                         a itemprop="relatedLink" href="https:  phys.org news 2016-09-survey-giant-pandas-longer-endangered.html" Survey finds giant pandas no longer 'endangered' in China  a 
                                      p 
 p 
                                            © 2016 AFP
                                         br   p 
 p Decades of conservation work in China have paid off for the giant panda, whose status was upgraded Sunday from "endangered" to "vulnerable" due to a population rebound, officials said.  p 
 p A giant panda on loan to Belgium from China has given birth to a cub, a rare event for the endangered species, the Pairi Daiza zoo said Thursday.  p 
 p A giant panda in China has given birth to two cubs, conservation authorities said, the first twins of the critically endangered species this year even though multiple births are common.  p 
 p Although a new Drexel study found that the metabolism of giant pandas is higher than previously reported, there is more than enough bamboo in nature to keep pandas healthy and happy for years.  p 
 p (AP)—Wild giant pandas in China are doing well. According to a census by China's State Forestry Administration, the panda population has grown by 268 to a total of 1,864 since the last survey ending in 2003.  p 
 p A giant panda on loan from China to Austria has given birth to two naturally conceived twins, an exceptionally rare event for the endangered species, Vienna's famous Schoenbrunn Zoo said Tuesday.  p 
 p Blue-blooded and armored with 10 spindly legs, horseshoe crabs have perhaps always seemed a bit out of place.  p 
 p As the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the globe, permafrost, land ice and sea ice are disappearing at unprecedented rates. And these changes not only affect the infrastructure, economies and cultures of the Arctic, ...  p 
 p Researchers at Delft University of Technology have created a quantum circuit to listen to the weakest radio signal allowed by quantum mechanics. This new quantum circuit opens the door to possible future applications in areas ...  p 
 p Located in the constellation of Hercules, about 230 million light-years away, NGC 6052 is a pair of colliding galaxies. They were first discovered in 1784 by William Herschel and were originally classified as a single irregular ...  p 
 p SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, completing a NASA demonstration mission that paves the way for the resumption of manned space flights from the US.  p 
 p Stars over eight times more massive than the sun end their lives in supernovae explosions. The composition of the star influences what happens during the explosion.  p 
 p Some species of Euglenids, a diversified family of aquatic unicellular organisms, can perform large-amplitude, elegantly coordinated body deformations. Although this behavior has been known for centuries, its function is ...  p 
 p 
                        Please  a href="https:  sciencex.com profile login " sign in  a  to add a comment.
                        Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
                         a href="https:  sciencex.com help account " Read more  a 
                  p 
 p  input type="email" required="" placeholder="email" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="email" name="email" 
                                  p 
 p  input type="password" required="" placeholder="password" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="passwd" name="passwd" 
                                 input type="hidden" value="login" name="status" 
    
                                  p 
 p 
                                         span class="float-right" id="cmPrThr"   span 
                                         input type="submit" value="Sign in" name="loginsubmit" id="login-submit" class="com-button" 
                                  p 
 p class="centered" Enter your Science X account credentials  p 
 p Connect  p 
 p class="copyright" © Phys.org 2003 - 2019,  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  sciencex.com " Science X network  a   p 
