 p class="EU-optin-banner batman-light caps" Our website uses cookies to  span class="fatman" enhance your browsing experience.  span   p 
 p class="karla consent-text" Please note that by continuing to use this website you consent to the terms of our  a href=" privacy-notice " Privacy Policy  a .  p 
 p  strong Table of Contents  strong   p 
 p Our intelligence team is dedicated to tracking the activities of threat actor groups and understanding as much as possible about each. In total,  strong we track well over 100 adversaries of all shapes and sizes  strong , including nation-state, eCrime, and hacktivist adversaries.  p 
 p  strong We use a cryptonym system for adversary categorization  strong . So “Anchor Panda” isn’t just a pet name; it designates both the adversary’s nation-state and the group they targeted…in this case, civilian and military maritime operations.  p 
 p  strong Some adversaries are tied to nation-state actors  strong —in this case, “Panda” is the umbrella term for all nation-state activity tied to the People’s Republic of China. Non-nation-state based adversaries are categorized not by location but by intention; for instance, activist groups like the Syrian Electronic Army, are categorized as “Jackal,” which expresses both intent and motivation.  strong The following is the cryptonym system that CrowdStrike uses for adversary categorization:  strong   p 
 p Below is a list of the most prevalent threat actors – categorized by country or group.  strong Click on the name of any adversary to learn more about their known aliases, targets, methods, and more.   strong   p 
 p Driven by requirements laid out under the government’s Made in China 2025 Plan, Chinese threat actors have been observed targeting technology, energy, and healthcare sectors. During the past year, CrowdStrike has identified an uptick in China-based adversaries, due in part to the souring U.S.-Sino relations.  p 
 p  strong Avg. Breakout Time in 2018:  strong  04:00:26  p 
 p Iranian threat actors have boosted their efforts through the adoption of new tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) this year. These new TTPs include things like strategic web compromise (SWC) campaigns and mobile malware, and have been used to target regional rivals, contain dissident activity, and expand their “soft war” campaigns.  p 
 p  strong Avg. Breakout Time in 2018:   strong 05:09:04  p 
 p Despite diplomatic overtures, DPRK-based adversaries appear to have increased their activity this year. Among their goals, financial sector and inter-Korea related intelligence stand out as priorities among DPRK actors.  p 
 p  strong Avg. Breakout Time in 2018:   strong 02:20:14  p 
 p Russian threat actors continue to be the most active and destructive among nation-state adversaries. This year’s top targets included the Ukrainian government, law enforcement, and military entities.  p 
 p  strong Avg. Breakout Time in 2018:   strong 00:18:49  p 
 p The most notable trend among eCrime adversaries has been the rise of “Big Game Hunting”. Using sophisticated ransomware campaigns to target large organizations, Big Game Hunting operations have proven to be incredibly lucrative for eCrime organizations.  p 
 p  strong Avg. Breakout Time in 2018:   strong 09:42:23  p 
 p Forewarned is forearmed, and nowhere is this sentiment more true than in the field of cybersecurity.  When George Kurtz and his team founded CrowdStrike, they enshrined this philosophy at the very core of the company’s mission, and the saying  strong “You don’t have a malware problem, you have an adversary problem,”  strong  became our calling card.  p 
 p It was George’s contention that if we were going to be successful in helping companies protect their networks and information assets from the ‘bad guys’ then the malware was just a symptom of a larger problem and the most robust security posture was rooted in understanding ‘who’ was unleashing that malware.  p 
 p In short,  strong understanding the adversary is the key to protecting against attacks  strong  because, while you can’t foresee all attacks, you can at least  strong use intelligence from the past to inform possible future assaults  strong  and help mitigate consequences. Consuming adversary intelligence is important to enterprises because in order to protect yourself, you need to know both  strong who  strong  will come after you and  strong how  strong  they will come after you.  p 
 p Adam Meyers has authored numerous papers for peer-reviewed industry venues and has received awards for his dedication to the information security industry. As Vice President of Intelligence for Crowdstrike, Meyers oversees all of CrowdStrike’s intelligence gathering and cyber-adversarial monitoring activities. Previously, Meyers was the Director of Cyber Security Intelligence with the National Products and Offerings Division of SRA International where he provided technical expertise at the tactical level and strategic guidance on overall security program objectives.  p 
 p CrowdStrike® Intelligence has recently observed PINCHY SPIDER affiliates deploying GandCrab ransomware in enterprise environments, using lateral…  p 
 p CrowdStrike® Intelligence observed a new campaign from a LUNAR SPIDER affiliate to distribute WIZARD SPIDER's TrickBot…  p 
 p This blog is from the CrowdStrike Intelligence Advanced Research Team Motivation What is worse than a…  p 
 p class="white" Sign up now to receive the latest notifications and updates from CrowdStrike.  p 
 p  a id="modal-trigger" class="btn btn-bordered border-white bg-red white wpex-lightbox" SIGN UP  a   p 
 p class="grey" Detect, prevent, and respond to attacks— even malware-free intrusions—at any stage, with next-generation endpoint protection.  p 
 p  a class="btn btn-bordered border-white bg-red white" href="https:  www.crowdstrike.com see-demo " SEE DEMO  a   p 
 p class="batman caps red" Try CrowdStrike Free for 15 Days  a class="btn btn-large bg-red white hover-to-red" id="stickyfooter-see-demo" Get Started with A Free Trial  a   p 
 p class="textcenter white karla-regular"  a class="karla-bold red" id="close-footer-form" style="display: none;" X  a   p 
