 p Giraffes, ostriches, warthog and zebra are not visible due to habitat construction.  p 
 p This is Mei Lan. He was born on September 6, 2006, and was the first cub of Lun Lun and Yang Yang born at Zoo Atlanta.  As part of our giant panda loan agreement with China, in 2010, Mei Lan was sent to Chengdu, where he joined the resident population at the  a href="http:  www.panda.org.cn english " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding  a .  Since Mei Lan’s arrival in Chengdu, he has fathered his own cubs at the Research Base!   p 
 p The Chinese government has established more than 50 panda reserves, but only around 61 percent of the country’s giant panda population is protected by these reserves. The latest census in 2014 found that there were 1,864 giant pandas in the wild.  In the past decade, giant panda numbers have risen by 17 percent. While this increase may sound like a lot, the total number of giant pandas is still low for breeding and maintaining a viable population.  p 
 p Panda mothers like to use large tree hollows for their dens.  Logging in established forests removes these old-growth trees, leaving pandas less-suitable denning areas. Fragmented habitats isolate small populations of giant pandas and prevent them from mixing and breeding.  p 
 p Dr. Sam Rivera, Senior Clinical Veterinarian at Zoo Atlanta, has been an active participant in the Zoo’s giant panda program for many years. His main areas of interest are all aspects of clinical medicine and establishing normal baseline values for the giant pandas in our care. Another area of great interest to him is ultrasonography and its application for the diagnosis of pregnancy and monitoring fetal development.  p 
 p  a class="button" href=" support donate " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" Donate  a   p 
 p  strong Check out these links:  strong   p 
 p  strong Learn more about Zoo Atlanta’s commitment to saving species.  strong   p 
 p The global decline of species and their habitats makes it clear that we need a multifaceted approach to conservation. Zoos are a critical component of this approach, with a responsibility to be a force that drives action.  p 
 p Zoo Atlanta’s research program on giant pandas began in March 1997. Research is conducted both here at Zoo Atlanta and...  p 
 p What does it mean when an animal becomes endangered? There are a number of factors that fall under this consideration,...  p 
 p Zoo Atlanta is a member of:  p 
