 p Despite their exalted status and relative lack of natural predators, pandas are still at risk. Severe threats from humans have left just over 1,800 pandas in the wild.  p 
 p Map data provided by  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" IUCN  a   p 
 p This peaceful creature with a distinctive black and white coat is adored by the world and considered a national treasure in China. The panda also has a special significance for WWF because it has been WWF's logo since our founding in 1961. br  br Pandas live mainly in bamboo forests high in the mountains of western China, where they subsist almost entirely on bamboo. They must eat from 26 to 84 pounds of it every day, a formidable task for which they use their enlarged wrist bones that function as opposable thumbs.  p 
 p A newborn panda is about the size of a stick of butter—about 1 900th the size of its mother—but can grow to up to 330 pounds as an adult. These bears are excellent tree climbers despite their bulk.   p 
 p Pandas play a crucial role in the bamboo forests where they roam by spreading seeds and facilitating growth of vegetation. In the Yangtze Basin where pandas live, the forests are home to a stunning array of wildlife such as dwarf blue sheep, multicolored pheasants and other endangered species, including the golden monkey, takin and crested ibis.  p 
 p    p 
 p  span style="line-height: 1.5em;" The panda’s habitat is at the geographic and economic heart of China, home to millions of people. By making this area more sustainable, we are also helping to increase the quality of life of local populations. Pandas bring huge economic benefits to local communities through ecotourism.  span   p 
 p No reasonable doubt that the last individual has died  p 
 p Known only to survive in cultivation, in captivity or as a naturalised population  p 
 p Facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Likely to qualify for a threatened category in the near future  p 
 p Does not qualify for Critically Endangered, Endangered, Vulnerable, or Near Threatened  p 
 p Hunting remains an ever-present threat. Poaching the animals for their fur has declined due to strict laws and greater public awareness of the panda’s protected status. But hunters seeking other animals in panda habitats continue to kill pandas accidentally.  p 
 p China’s Yangtze Basin region, which holds the panda’s primary habitat, is the geographic and economic heart of this booming country. Roads and railroads are increasingly fragmenting the forest, which isolates panda populations and prevents mating.  p 
 p  span style="line-height: 1.5em;" Forest destruction also reduces pandas’ access to the bamboo they need to survive. The Chinese government has established more than 50 panda reserves, but only around 61% of the country’s panda population is protected by these reserves.  span   p 
 p WWF was the first international conservation organization to work in China at the Chinese government's invitation. WWF’s main role in China is to assist and influence policy-level conservation decisions through information collection, demonstration of conservation approaches, communications and capacity building.  p 
 p We work towards and advocate for  p 
 p WWF has been helping with the Chinese government’s National Conservation Program for the giant panda and its habitat. Thanks to this program, panda reserves now cover more than 3.8 million acres of forest.  p 
 p Evolution of the WWF Logo  p 
 p The inspiration for the WWF logo came from Chi-Chi: a giant panda that was living at the London Zoo in 1961, the same year WWF was created. WWF’s founders were aware of the need for a strong, recognizable symbol that would overcome all language barriers. They agreed that the big, furry animal with her appealing, black-patched eyes would make an excellent choice. br  br The first panda sketches were done by the British environmentalist and artist, Gerald Watterson. Based on these, Sir Peter Scott, one of WWF’s founders and a world-renowned conservationist and painter, drew the first logo.  p 
 p  span style="line-height: 1.5em;" The design of the logo has evolved over the past four decades, but the giant panda’s distinctive features remain an integral part of WWF’s treasured and unmistakable symbol. Today, WWF’s trademark is recognized as a universal symbol for the conservation movement.  span   p 
 p Camera traps are not the intricate and elaborate devices you might imagine. These innovative conservation tools are in fact nothing more than everyday cameras, armed with infrared sensors that take a picture whenever they sense movement in the forest.  p 
 p Show your love of the tiger with the WWF BankAmericard Cash Rewards Visa credit card. Bank of America will contribute $100 to WWF for each account opened and activated.  p 
 p Make a symbolic panda adoption to help save some of the world's most endangered animals from extinction and support WWF's conservation efforts.  p 
 p Get the latest conservation news with WWF email.
  p 
 p Already have a WWF account?
  p 
 p class="address" 
 strong World Wildlife Fund  strong  br 
1250 24th Street, N.W. br 
Washington, DC 20037
  p 
 p class="copyright" © 2019 World Wildlife Fund  p 
