 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p This sweet and gentle creature is much loved by zoo visitors.  p 
 p Red Pandas are classed as ‘vulnerable’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN ‘red list’), with numbers in the wild decreasing. There may as few as 10,000 animals remaining in the wild. Threats include hunting (although this is illegal in all countries), poaching and loss of habitat as humans move into Red Pandas’ traditional environments.   p 
 p Conservation efforts around the world include designating protected areas and captive breeding programs. Red Pandas adapt well to living in zoos and there has been success with breeding Red Pandas in zoos. Visiting the Red Pandas at Melbourne Zoo is an opportunity not only to meet these animals, but also to learn about the threats to many species, what the international community is doing to try to conserve this species, and how Zoos Victoria is contributing to the fight.   p 
 p Nepalese Red Pandas are found in dense forests and bamboo thickets of remote mountain areas of Nepal, China, India, Bhutan and Burma, at elevations of 1970–3660 metres. While classified as a carnivore, it is one that has adapted to a diet almost exclusively of bamboo.  p 
 p Adults are 50–65 cm in length, with a tail of 30–50 cm. The Red Panda is named after the reddish colour of its long, soft fur, which camouflages the animal against the red lichen often found on trees in its habitat.   p 
 p The Red Panda's fur is has a thick under layer that insulates the body against the cold, and an upper layer of long hairs that repel moisture. The muzzle, lips, cheeks and ear edges are white, and there are dark red-brown ‘tear tracks' from the eyes to the corners of the mouth.   p 
 p Two thirds of the Red Panda's length is its tail, bushy and marked with reddish rings. The Red Panda's feet are furred, for walking on snow.  p 
 p Zoos and other conservation organisations around the world put the spotlight on Red Pandas on Saturday to highlight the urgent need to protect them in the wild.  p 
 p This will be the longest-ever summer at Melbourne Zoo.  p 
 p Beginning on Boxing Day, the Zoo will be open from 8am, an hour earlier than usual, right through the holidays until the last early-opening day on January 29.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
