 p RENO, Nev. -- Bobby Daniell was on a hunt for his next adventure.  p 
 p In Reno for the 41st annual convention of Safari Club International, the Atlanta-area resident recently returned from his third African safari. His next big hunting excursion, Daniell said, might be to go after big game in New Zealand or Canada.  p 
 p But Africa, where Daniell last killed a Cape buffalo along with various species of antelope, will always be on his list for another hunt. He would next like to go after a leopard or maybe an elephant.  p 
 p "It's just the experience of going," Daniell said. "You can't go anywhere and see the number of animals that are in Africa."  p 
 p Daniell is among the thousands of sportsmen gathered at this year's convention, many of them on the lookout to book an overseas hunting adventure.  p 
 p These things don't come cheap. The $20,000 Daniell spent on his last safari to Mozambique is but a fraction of the kind of money hunters can shell out for an expedition to bag a lion, elephant, rhino, or any of the other big game animals ripe for stalking on the veldt.  p 
 p To these folks, it's worth it, said Alistair Pole, owner of Zambezi Hunters, which escorts hunters on "classic dangerous game safaris" on the Save Valley Conservancy in Zimbabwe. An upper-end hunting expedition can cost up to $70,000 before all is said and done, Pole said.  p 
 p What's the appeal? To many, it's the thrill, Pole said.  p 
 p "It's the dangerous game hunting. This stuff can fight back," Pole said, adding that two professional hunters in Zimbabwe were killed by Cape buffalo -- one of Africa's most unpredictable and dangerous animals -- in 2012.  p 
 p Much of the money spent on the outings goes into funding conservation projects without which places like Save Valley -- and the animals that live there -- "would have collapsed," Pole said.  p 
 p He cited a $150,000 fund raised through hunting revenue that is used to combat rhino poaching in the area.  p 
 p Africa was a primary hunting destination showcased at the Safari Club convention, but it's far from the only one.  p 
 p Matthew Wallis was answering questions and drumming up potential business for family-owned Minaret Station, a 65,000-acre enclave located on New Zealand's South Island.  p 
 p The area boasts prime hunting opportunities for wapiti -- we call them elk -- red stag, tahr and alpine sheep, among others.  p 
 p It costs $1,000 a day to hunt at Minaret Station. Trophy fees for red stags range from $5,000 to $19,000, depending on the size and quality of the animal's antlers.  p 
 p Unlike many hunting destinations, New Zealand offers many opportunities for those not holding a rifle, Wallis said. It's a place to bring a family.  p 
 p "A lot of hunting places aren't like that," Wallis said. "The fact we've got great hunting and fishing is an added bonus. It's a given New Zealand's landscape is spectacular. Add to that we're friendly people."  p 
 p Attending the convention from South Carolina, Kenneth Seeger has his eye on New Zealand. He'd like to bag a red stag "and maybe do a little fishing."  p 
 p Sure, it will involve spending more than a little cash.  p 
 p "None of this is cheap at the end of the day," Seeger said. "But it's not just the hunting, it's the cultural experience. It's meeting new people."  p 
 p  b Safari sampler: what it costs for an exotic hunt  b   p 
 p  b Rhinoland Safaris  b   p 
 p  b $66,790:  b  Cost of a successful 14-day hunt for a white rhino with trophy fees. A 10-day hunt for Cape buffalo costs $16,845 with trophy fees. A 10-day hippo hunt costs $12,245.  p 
 p  b Zambezi Hunters  b   p 
 p  b $52,500:  b  Cost of a 21-day lion safari, with lions, buffalo, leopard and plains game among species available for hunting. An 18-day buffalo leopard sable hunt costs $26,100. A 15-day elephant hunt costs $20,250 plus a trophy fee of $4,000-$18,500.  p 
 p  b Minaret Station  b   p 
 p  b $24,000:  b  Cost of a successful five-day hunt for New Zealand's elk with the largest antlers, including trophy fees. A five-day hunt for red stag with the largest antlers also costs $24,000. A five-day hunt for a red stag with the smallest antlers costs $10,000.  p 
 p Source: Reno Gazette Journal research  p 
