 p  a href=".. .. index.html" Home  a  &gt;&gt;  a href=".. index.html" Permits  a  &gt;&gt;  a href=".. application-forms index.html" Application Forms   a &gt;&gt;  a href="sport-hunted-trophies.html" Hunting Overseas  a  &gt;&gt; Lions  p 
 p class="small"    p 
 p There are several steps that you need to take when applying  to import your sport-hunted lion trophy. We recommend planning and applying  before you finalize your hunting plans to ensure you can obtain the necessary  permits. Import permits are valid for one year from the time of issuance and  may be amended or renewed if necessary.   strong   strong   p 
 p We  understand that most hunters want to know before their hunt whether they qualify  for a permit to import their hunted animal. If you wish to have this  reassurance prior to your hunting trip, we recommend that you submit your  permit application to us  strong 18 months  strong  prior  to your planned lion hunt. In doing so, you can expect us to finish the  processing of your application  strong a year  from your hunt  strong . If you cannot plan your hunt that far in advance, we  encourage you to submit your application as soon as you have the information  available to complete your application. In order to complete your permit  application, among other information, you must know  strong the country and location of your hunt   strong (area, ranch, conservancy, management area, or  hunting block, and nearest city), planned  strong date  range of the hunt  strong , and the  strong name of  the hunting outfitter, safari company, or professional hunting guide   strong with  whom strong    strong you will be hunting. Copies of  any applicable foreign government permits or licenses required for the hunt  should be included if you have already obtained them.  p 
 p If you wish to apply for your import  permit after you have hunted the wildlife, you will need to complete the permit  application, providing, among other information:  strong the country and location where you hunted the wildlife   strong (area,  ranch, conservancy, management area, or hunting block, and nearest city); the  strong date  the wildlife was hunted;  strong  and the  strong name of the hunting outfitter, safari  company, or professional hunting guide   strong with whom you hunted. In addition,  you will need to provide copies of any applicable foreign government permits or  licenses that were required for the hunt.  p 
 p Once your permit application is determined to be complete  and we have all the necessary information, we will generally be able to make a  decision on your application within three months. You will be notified either  by receipt of your import permit or a letter explaining the reason for denial  of your application.  p 
 p We find that the  u  a href="https:  www.iucn.org theme species about species-survival-commission" IUCN Species Survival Commission (SSC)  a   u  document  u  a href="https:  cmsdata.iucn.org downloads iucn_ssc_guiding_principles_on_trophy_hunting_ver1_09aug2012.pdf" Guiding Principles on Trophy Hunting as a Tool for  Creating Conservation Incentives, Ver. 1.0 (IUCN SSC 2012)  a   u  provides useful principles, which, considered in  conjunction with our permit issuance criteria, aid the Service when making  findings and determinations regarding import of hunted animals. This document  sets out guidance from experts in the field on the use of trophy hunting as a  tool for “creating incentives for the conservation of species and their  habitats and for the equitable sharing of the benefits of use of natural  resources” and recognizes that recreational hunting, particularly trophy  hunting, can contribute to biodiversity conservation and more specifically, the  conservation of the hunted species.    p 
 p    p 
