 p class="partial_entry"  span class="fullText " It was our first time we visited a drive through zoo. I was not fully happy with what I saw. br Yes, there are many, many different kind of animals and it was wonderful to see them. I expected to see most of them closer to my car. br Over all this visit was disappointing br pore  span  span class="taLnk ulBlueLinks moreBtn" onclick="widgetEvCall('handlers.clickExpand', event, this);" More  span   p 
 p class="partial_entry" Thank you for sharing your recent experience at Lion Country Safari. I'm sorry to hear you did not fully enjoy your experience on safari.  One of our goals at Lion Country Safari is to have our animals as close to their natural environment as possible. By recreating a natural habit it encourages the animals to show more natural behaviors as they would in the wild. Some of our animals will approach the vehicles, while others may observe from afar. We like to give our animals the freedom to roam and go where they would like.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Hello, br  br on Saturday March 14, my fiance and our two daughters visited your park, i was charged $122.00 for something i thought my family and myself would have found to be enjoyable.  i must say this place is absolutely a waste of money and time.  the drive was so boring that the kids fell asleep and was crying begging to leave, stating that they were bored.  i was bored, my fiance was bored and so was my 3 and 8 year old kids.  All we saw was the same animals in each sections, i dont underatnd how this park is called Lion Country Safari but each section only have the same animals over and over.  After leaving the long and boring ride we decided to see if we could enjoy ourselves in the "amusement park" area, EPIC FAIL!  it was so generic, cheap and dirty.  the little mechanical Red car was not wworking after spending $2.00 in the machine.  The life jackets were torn, the facility was dirty filled with trash and also the staff at the ice cream stand was extremely unpleasant.  We were so thrilled to finally be leaving this place afer driving 2hrs, i must say this place is a total RIP-OFF, i am DEMANDING a REFUND!  i cant believe this place is "functioning" i cant believe you are still in business.  after discussing my day with friends, family, co workers and strangers, they agreed and shared their horrible experience at your facility.  My family, friends, co workers and I will NEVER visit this RIP-OFF park again!  you guys need to close it down permanently or reinvent yourself, give the people an expereince worth the money they are spening.  I WANT A REFUND, keep your apology. HORRIBLE PALCE&gt;&gt;&gt; "DO NOT GO" thank me later  p 
 p class="partial_entry" We are sorry you were disappointed in your visit, but appreciate your reaching out via email so we could work with you.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" We went there with our local friends.  A great way to spend a day. br  br The self guided drive through animal park with CD narration was an unique was to see the animals.  The animals were close enough to see clearly and photograph. br  br After the drive through we wandered the up close parts of the park. The girls loved to feed the giraffes romaine lettuce.  Lots of other animals to touch and feed.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Thank you for taking the time to write a review on your recent experience at Lion Country Safari. We are glad to hear you  enjoyed your visit. We hope to see you on safari again soon!  p 
 p class="partial_entry" I can't believe the reviews that I have read on Tripadvisor on this place. It seems that city people will fall for anything. I have been on 6 African safaris to 7 different central southern African countries, and I can tell you one thing- these guys care only about quantity, not quality. While the blackbuck (South American) and Berchell's Zebra populations looked healthy and active, several of the other species were in very poor condition. There were probably around 400-500 animals in this enclosure and AT LEAST a dozen on them need to be taken out immediately to end their suffering (please note that I am a hunter, NOT an environmentalist). These animals look very poor- extruding ribs and hips, as well as some raw injuries. And we saw at least 7-8 males with broken horns, a sign that they are fighting way too much. The animals in question may not be starving- they may be diseased. In either case, the humane thing to do is to put them down, not keep them around just to keep your numbers up. We know locals here who say that this place has been going down the tubes for years. They have gotten to the point where this "tour" was truly a disgusting animal experience. Please check my profile- I usually write very positive reviews, but this place needs to needs to be managed with the animal's interest in mind, therefore being a better tourist attraction.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" We appreciate your concern for our animals at Lion Country Safari. At Lion Country Safari we have around 400 animals in our 300-acre drive-through preserve.  Some of these animals are geriatric; however, they are under expert veterinary care and are not sick or suffering- definitely not diseased. You mentioned a concern of some animals’ appearances, but many of these animals are well beyond their life expectancy. As a result, they may not look as appealing as a younger animal, but they still maintain their quality of life. Specifically, you mention animals with broken horns- this is also an age-related issue except for one that sustained injury when he was young. Most of our herds have only one breeding male; this minimizes aggression and allows us to monitor the genetics. At Lion Country Safari, we don’t remove animals or isolate them from their social group because they get old. The option of euthanasia is our last choice, when quality of life is diminished. Their longevity is attributed to the quality of health care we provide our animals, not a lack thereof.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" I had taken family from out of town and what an experience. It's like being in am African Safari  br without leaving the US. The audio disk they provide you takes you through each area with br great explanation of what you are seeing. In fact it even makes you aware of some things that you would completely miss had you not been informed it was there. br  br The refreshments were perfect after the drive through the wild animal area and the exhibits were great fun. You learned a lot about the wildlife and got to feed  birds and other wild life as well. br  br Plan on making a day of it as it has a water park component for the kids to enjoy.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Thank you for taking the time to share your review about Lion Country Safari. We strive to have our animals as close to their natural environment as possible. The animals are free roaming which gives our guests the feeling that they are on a real African safari!  We offer many activities throughout our walk through park too that are family oriented and provide a fun and safe time for everyone. We hope to see you back soon!  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Great time to do the drive thru.  The park was great for smaller kids and had lots to do, imcluding paddleboats and boat tour  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Thank you for taking the time to write a review on your recent experience at Lion Country Safari. We are glad to hear you enjoyed your visit. We hope to see you on the safari again soon!  p 
