 p class="header__subline" European prohibitions and restrictions on the use of wild animals in circuses  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Austria  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Belgium   strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Bosnia-Herzegovina   strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Bulgaria  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Croatia  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Cyprus  strong  br  General ban on the use of all animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Czech Republic  strong  br  Ban on the use of baby apes, seals, whales (excl. dolphins), rhinoceros, hippos, giraffes.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Denmark  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals. br  Only the remaining three 'Danish elephants' may stay in circuses.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong England  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals as of 2020.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Estonia  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Finland  strong  br  Ban on the use of apes, big cats, elephants, hippopotami, marsupials, rhinoceros, seals, crocodiles, birds of prey, ostriches, wild ruminant or equine animals. br  br  strong Greece  strong  br  General ban on the use of all animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Hungary  strong  br  Ban on the use of elephants, rhinoceros and primates. br  Ban on the use of newly captured animals from the wild. Ban on the use of species mentioned in Appendix I of the CITES Convention.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Ireland  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Italy   strong  br  In November 2017, the Italian parliament adopted a ban on animals in circuses and traveling exhibitions. The ban will be implemented by decree within the next 12 months.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Latvia  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Malta  strong  br  General ban on the use of all animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Macedonia  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Netherlands  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Norway  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Portugal  strong   p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm" Ban on the use of great apes. Breeding ban on whales, primates, wolves, bears, big cats, pinnipeds, elephants, manatees, rhinoceros, hippos, flightless birds, reptiles, boa constrictors. In October 2018, a new law banning the use of wild animals in circuses by 2024 was approved by the Portuguese parliament and will be voted on in December 2018. br  br  strong Poland  strong  br  Ban on the use of wild animals born in the wild.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Romania  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals as of 2017 (18 months transition period).   p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Scotland  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Serbia   strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Slovakia  strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Slovenia   strong  br  General ban on the use of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Sweden  strong  br  Ban on the use of apes, big cats, rhinoceros, giraffes, kangaroos, hippos, seals, birds of prey, ostriches, crocodiles, fallow deer.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"    p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"    p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Bolivia  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals and domesticated species since July 1, 2010.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Costa Rica  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals. br  br  strong Ecuador  strong  br  Nationwide ban on the use of native wild animals; restrictions on the use of exotic animals; ban on the import of both native and exotic wild animals by circuses.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong El Salvador   strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Guatemala  strong  br  General prohibition of all animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Honduras  strong  br  General prohibition of all animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong India  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Iran  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Israel  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Columbia  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Lebanon  strong  br  Nationwide ban on the use of certain species in circuses.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Mexico  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Panama  strong  br  Nationwide ban prohibiting the 'entry of wild animals for use in static and travelling circuses and similar shows'.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Paraguay  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals. br  br  strong Peru  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals. br  br  strong Singapur  strong  br  General prohibition of wild animals.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm"  strong Taiwan  strong  br  Nationwide prohibition on the import or export of protected wildlife for circuses.  p 
 p Linke Wienzeile 236, A-1150 Vienna,  a href="mailto:office@four-paws.org" office@four-paws.org  a , Tel:  a href="" +43-1-895 02 02-0  a   p 
