 p  a href="https:  experience.thomsonsafaris.com early-bird " Click here to save up to $500 on your safari  a   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" 
  p 
 p Illustrators with an anthropomorphic bent have played them up as nature’s crown on her chosen king of the beasts, and Charles Darwin posited that they essentially served as furry helmets, but what is a lion’s mane  em really   em for?  p 
 p Male lions start to grow manes around the age of two years, which signals the onset of sexual maturity.  p 
 p …which might sound nice, but for young male lions, it’s a mixed blessing; the appearance of a mane is the pride’s cue to kick a lion out. In order to join a new pride, the young lions have to essentially take it over, challenging the current dominant male for his position.  p 
 p Coincidentally, a nicely filled-out mane might help that process along.  p 
 p One of the main (mane?) functions of the hairy toppers is intimidation. Imagine a cat that’s just been startled; it arches its back, puffs up its tail, and sticks its hair on end. Lion manes serve a similar function as this typical cat behavior; the size and density of the mane can help a lion appear larger, and therefore more threatening, warning away possible opponents.  p 
 p That intimidating appearance ties into the second function of the mane: a symbol of health and potency. A lion would be wise to keep its distance from another lion with an especially thick, lush mane, not only because it puffs him up in the neck and chest region, but because its very existence indicates serious power.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #888888; font-style: italic;" This young male lion’s mane is just staring to grow in   span  br 
 span style="color: #888888; font-style: italic; font-size: 11px;" Photo: Thomson Safaris guests, Bill Kurtz &amp; Kathy Aalfs  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;" 
  p 
 p Darker, fuller manes indicate a healthy lion with plenty of testosterone. This makes him catnip to the ladies, but also tells potential rivals to beware; he won’t back down from a fight. Mane length is also a signal to other lions of fighting success (presumably manes are damaged in these challenges).  p 
 p Black manes are perhaps the most telling status-symbol; manes darken with age, and thick dark hair indicates a well-fed lion. That means a black-maned lion is likely in his prime, eating well, and getting plenty of lovin’ from the ladies. Who would want to mess with that?  p 
 p Well, nature, for one.  p 
 p Black manes may make a lion look suave, but they also make him overheat under the relentless equatorial sun. Global warming only makes that sun more brutal, and some scientists predict that very soon, black manes could be a thing of the past. The heat might also thin the lions’ hair. Animals in northern zoos often grow thicker manes than their wild counterparts, which scientists posit is at least partly due to the colder climate.  p 
 p At least “great hair” is ONE upside to winter.  p 
 p  span style="color: #888888; font-style: italic;" Mane or no mane, this LIONESS is in charge!  span  br 
 span style="color: #888888; font-style: italic; font-size: 11px;" Video: Thomson Safaris staffer, Jackie Faria  span   p 
 p 
            Smart travelers know taking a few simple precautions can make a trip infinitely smoother and brings welcome peace of mind. Phot...            p 
 p href=" blog safari-adventure-with-peace-of-mind " class="button" Read More  svg preserveaspectratio="none" class="icon icon--arrow"  use xlink:href="https:  thomsonsafaris.com wp-content themes thomson-safaris dist images symbols.svg#icon-arrow"   use   svg   p 
 p 
            

We’ve probably all claimed to be “fighting tooth and nail” for something important, but in the wild, when the something impor...            p 
 p href=" blog animal-bite-force " class="button" Read More  svg preserveaspectratio="none" class="icon icon--arrow"  use xlink:href="https:  thomsonsafaris.com wp-content themes thomson-safaris dist images symbols.svg#icon-arrow"   use   svg   p 
 p 
            Thomson guest and talented beatboxer, Ben Mirin, shared a special cultural exchange with the Maasai during his safari earlier t...            p 
 p href=" blog thomsonsafaris-guest-beatboxing-with-maasai " class="button" Read More  svg preserveaspectratio="none" class="icon icon--arrow"  use xlink:href="https:  thomsonsafaris.com wp-content themes thomson-safaris dist images symbols.svg#icon-arrow"   use   svg   p 
 p 
            3-day old gorilla twins, photographed by Thomson Safaris guests,
Deborah, Stephen and Rebekah.
On May 27th, a mountain gorilla ...            p 
 p href=" blog mountain-gorilla-twins-rwanda " class="button" Read More  svg preserveaspectratio="none" class="icon icon--arrow"  use xlink:href="https:  thomsonsafaris.com wp-content themes thomson-safaris dist images symbols.svg#icon-arrow"   use   svg   p 
 p Keep a lookout on your inbox for safari news and promos  p 
 p  a href="https:  thomsonsafaris.com privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a   p 
 p © 2019 Thomson Safaris, A Division Of Wineland-thomson Adventures, Inc.  p 
 p Website by  a href="http:  www.leapxd.com" target="_blank" Leap XD  a   p 
 p Reserve Now  p 
 p Free Catalog  p 
