 p There are close to 150 captive Asiatic lions in Europe.  p 
 p class="lead-text" The recent death of 23 Asiatic lions in India – including three from the highly contagious Canine Distemper Virus (CDV) – has highlighted the risk of confining the species to a small part of the country. In a worst-case scenario, can captive animals in European countries like Switzerland help re-establish the species?   p 
 p It is lunch time and the suburban neighbourhood of Zurichberg reverberates with the guttural call of a male lion. A 20-minute tram ride from Zurich’s main station,  a rel="external" href="https:  www.zoo.ch en" Zoo Zurich span class="show-for-sr" external link  span   a  is by far the biggest attraction here, especially during the school holidays. Visitors flock to the lion enclosure, drawn to the sounds of the king of the jungle.   p 
 p 
    The Zurich zoo has four Asiatic lions: A 13-year-old male, a 15-year-old female and their two female cubs aged nine and eight.   p 
 p The four lions – one male and three females – do not belong to the African savannah but to deciduous forests of Gujarat state in northwestern India. Just over 600 Asiatic lions ( em Panthera leo persica  em ) in the Gir Protected Area and surrounding region are all that is left of the wild Asiatic lion. The species once ranged from Greece in the west to India in the east but is now confined to a corner of an Indian state. Despite several proposals to relocate a few animals to other parts of the country, including an order from the Supreme Court in 2013, Gujarat has refused to part with “its lions”. It is a decision that could prove costly for the species.   p 
 p Within a span of two weeks in September, 23 lions died in the Gir forest. Canine Distemper Virus (CDV) was detected in five of 24 samples tested, which indicated at least three of the dead lions were infected. Further testing of 80 samples from 27 lions that were placed under observation at the nearby Sakkarbaug Zoo revealed that 21 animals had tested positive for CDV.   p 
 p “This indicates active disease transmission among the Gir lions,” confirmed a statement from the Indian Council of Medical Research on October 9.  p 
 p This could have a serious impact on the population if history repeats itself. In 1994, an outbreak of CDV in the Serengeti in Tanzania decimated a third of the lions there.  p 
 p “When you only have a small population of Asiatic lions it would be a great risk to the survival of the species if a third were wiped out,” Robert Zingg of Zoo Zurich told swissinfo.ch.   p 
 p According to him, the relatively large number of lions in a small area means the risk of spread is high as more interactions are likely.   p 
 p Zingg is a strong advocate of creating a second population of Asiatic lions in India. The Zurich zoo had financially supported attempts to develop a second home for the lions in the Kuno wildlife sanctuary in central India. Funds sent by the zoo were used to create an inventory of plants and animals in the sanctuary. Six years on, Kuno still hasn’t received any lions despite being deemed a suitable habitat for the big cats.   p 
 p “In a country with so many people, every place prepared for wildlife should be used. It is not easy to find large enough spaces to establish a certain number of lions,” says Zingg.  p 
 p Apart from disease, Zingg is worried about the fact that many of the lions in Gujarat live near villages where people graze livestock. He is afraid that people will retaliate if lions kill many cattle or even attack people.   p 
 p Zurich zoo was one of three zoos – along with London and Helsinki – lucky enough to obtain pure Asiatic lions in the 1990s from the Sakkarbaug Zoo in Gujarat. A pair named Bhagirath and Mena were a gift to commemorate the 700 sup th  sup  anniversary of the founding of Switzerland. Along with the London and Helsinki zoos, Zurich’s launched a European breeding programme and two decades later, 43 European zoos have a total of almost 150 Asiatic lions.   p 
 p id="html-fragment-44506142" class="show-for-sr" Captive lions stats  p 
 p “The programme was so successful that today, it is difficult to find places for the lions. So we do not breed any more at the moment,” says Zingg.   p 
 p The females have a hormonal implant that prevents them from getting into oestrus. If called upon, the zoo is capable of resuming the breeding programme. But there is a slight hitch. The breeding female was born in 2003 and her age makes it uncertain she could have any cubs. The two younger females are the progeny of the current male, hence no breeding is possible. The zoo will have to exchange its females for another male to make it work. This is where cooperation with India is required.   p 
 p “They can help us in ensuring the zoo populations in Europe are genetically healthy. This would mean that additional animals are sent from India to European zoos when necessary,” says Zingg.   p 
 p The Indian authorities have said that they don’t have enough animals to send to Europe but suggested artificial insemination instead. According to Zingg, this method is difficult to implement successfully, and it is much easier to exchange animals.    p 
 p While it is the responsibility of zoos to have animals that are genetically sound, can they really offer the possibility of re-establishing a big cat species that has been lost in the wild?   p 
 p “The zoo populations of lions and all big cats are relatively robust and serve as a backstop from extinction – but the priority must be in ensuring the wild populations like the Gir lions stay safe,” says Doug Cress, CEO of the  a rel="external" href="http:  www.waza.org en site home" target="_blank" World Association of Zoos and Aquariums span class="show-for-sr" external link  span   a  (WAZA).   p 
 p That said, Cress underlines the role of zoos in the successful re-establishment of species that almost went extinct in the wild like the California condor, Black-foot ferret, Corroboree frog and the Golden Lion tamarin. Captive animals have acquired greater importance when evaluating the overall chances of survival of a species.   p 
 p “Any population of wild animals could be re-established through the captive populations cared for in zoos and aquariums, and that is one reason the  a rel="external" href="https:  www.iucnredlist.org " IUCN Red List of Threatened Species span class="show-for-sr" external link  span   a  will now include captive populations when assessing the extinction threat levels for species,” says Cress.   p 
 p Despite the sufficient numbers it is notoriously difficult to re-establish big cats from zoos into the wild. A  a rel="external" href="https:  www.researchgate.net publication 222557519_The_effects_of_captive_experience_on_reintroduction_survival_in_carnivores_A_review_and_analysis" ten-year old study span class="show-for-sr" external link  span   a  that examined over 45 attempts at re-establishing carnivores including cheetahs and tigers found that the success rate of projects using captive-born animals was a mere 13% compared to 31% from wild-caught animals.  p 
 p The lions at the Zurich zoo have managed to kill birds like herons that entered their enclosure, but their hunting skills are not good enough to survive in the wild. Zingg estimates that it will take two generations to create animals that have these skills to transmit to their offspring – a process that would require sacrificing a lot of prey animals.   p 
 p Depending on how India copes with CDV crisis, it might not come to that.  p 
 p “It is important to be aware that when you are the only country with a species you have a great responsibility,” says Zingg.  p 
 p id="html-fragment-43546512" class="show-for-sr" Horizontal Line  p 
 p id="html-fragment-44740260" class="show-for-sr" SWI swissinfo.ch on Instagram  p 
 p id="html-fragment-42152632" class="show-for-sr" Form for signing up for free newsletter.  p 
 p  strong Sign up for our free newsletters and get the top stories delivered to your inbox.  strong   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.swissinfo.ch eng swissinfo-ch-newsletter_newsletter-subscription 42152624" style="font-size: .875rem;" Click here to see more newsletters   a   p 
 p All rights reserved. The content of the website by swissinfo.ch is copyrighted. It is intended for private use only. Any other use of the website content beyond the use stipulated above, particularly the distribution, modification, transmission, storage and copying requires prior written consent of swissinfo.ch. Should you be interested in any such use of the website content, please contact us via contact@swissinfo.ch.  p 
 p As regards the use for private purposes, it is only permitted to use a hyperlink to specific content, and to place it on your own website or a website of third parties. The swissinfo.ch website content may only be embedded in an ad-free environment without any modifications.   Specifically applying to all software, folders, data and their content provided for download by the swissinfo.ch website, a basic, non-exclusive and non-transferable license is granted that is restricted to the one-time downloading and saving of said data on private devices. All other rights remain the property of swissinfo.ch. In particular, any sale or commercial use of these data is prohibited.  p 
 p 
    Designing spaces for wild animals is not what most architects have in mind when entering the profession. But the creative Swiss are embracing the ...  p 
 p 
    Basel and Zurich zoos recently launched major new development projects. Although they claim to be more animal-friendly ...  p 
 p 
    Elephant rides are a thriving business in the city of Jaipur in northwestern India, but an average of six elephants die every year from neglect.  p 
 p 
    Once hunted to extinction in Switzerland, lynx are doing well now – thanks partly to the successful matchmaking services of the Swiss government.   p 
 p aria-hidden="true" World partners  p 
 p aria-hidden="true" Business Units SRG  p 
 p aria-hidden="true" Follow us  p 
