 p Lions are one of the most sought-after sightings on a safari. The excitement of seeing them is somehow connected to our primal fascination with them. Thanks to their reassuringly feline name –  em Panthera leo  em  – we know we are technically dealing with ‘cats’ but lions are startlingly huge, almost bear-sized. Their muscular, barrel-chested bodies and arrogantly jutting chins let everyone know who the boss is – and it’s not the 2-legged creatures wearing sunglasses!  p 
 p Lions are Africa’s top predator and go for big animals such as zebra, buffalo, giraffe, hippo and even young elephants. If you catch lionesses on the hunt, it’s heart-in-mouth stuff and their retinue of hyenas, jackals and vultures always makes a fascinating sideshow.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Males are often scarred from fighting but pride females do most of the hunting.  p 
 p Home to most of the country’s wild lions, the Kruger National Park has always been South Africa’s premier destination for a lion safari. But Kruger is the size of Wales, and the distribution of its 2 000 lions is at the mercy of geography and climate. Areas of richer, grassier soils and higher rainfall support more animals to prey on and so lion densities there are higher. Hot and dry northern Kruger is home to around five to six lions per 100km², but the wetter and greener southern Kruger has over twice that number. If you’re planning a Kruger lion safari – go south and central.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Lion cubs on the move! Juvenile males eventually leave to form new prides.  p 
 p Everyone knows that cats don’t like water but the lions of Duba Plains in the northern Okavango Delta have learnt to thrive in it for good reason: nutritious grasses and permanent water make the area perfect habitat for buffalo. And lions just  em love  em  buffalo.  p 
 p But 2 000lbs of hoof and horn doesn’t go down without a fight, and the lions of Duba Plains have evolved into quite extraordinary beasts. Thanks to the constant workout they get running through shallow water and wrestling with enraged buffaloes, the lions here are around 15 percent larger than normal. They’ve also adapted to hunting during the day (usually prides hunt at night and sleep during the day) when the buffalo herds are grazing on the exposed floodplains, which translates into epic game viewing for safari travellers.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Lions in the Okavango Delta have adapted to living largely in water.  p 
 p Zambia’s huge reserves are home to a significant proportion of Africa’s lions and most of them live in the Luangwa Valley, a wildlife haven and home to the South Luangwa National Park.  p 
 p It was here that walking safaris were pioneered and many lodges offer anything from a morning walk to a multi-day hiking adventure. But during the May to October dry season you’ll be high and dry in a 4X4 when you patrol the banks of the Luangwa River. Animals crowd the banks and oxbow lakes, becoming easy targets for Luangwa’s lions.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" About 3 or 4 cubs are born to a lioness &amp; are weaned by 8 months.  p 
 p Chances are that you’ll have lion sightings completely to yourself at Ruaha. Hidden away in southern Tanzania, Ruaha National Park sees fewer than 6 000 visitors a year – or about 16 a day.  p 
 p Which makes Ruaha one of Africa's hidden treasures. Its wildly beautiful scenery and impressive bio-diversity is home to 10% of the world’s remaining lion population - in fact, it’s second only to the Serengeti in terms of absolute numbers.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Lions are nocturnal &amp; spend most of the day asleep, making for easy sightings!  p 
 p Look at it from a lion’s perspective: if your survival depends on the availability of suitable food, how does a million wildebeest sound? Joined by tens of thousands of zebra and gazelles, that’s how many wildebeest grunt and gallop their way around the Serengeti and Masai Mara, a circular  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com holiday-types migration-safari why-go" target="_blank" migration  a  so magnificent it spans two countries and takes most of the year to complete.  p 
 p Little wonder that this region holds Africa’s greatest numbers of lions.  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com destinations grumeti-reserves why-go" target="_blank" Singita Grumeti  a  in the western Serengeti recently recorded 92 lion sightings in a month, including one day when an astonishing 60 individual lions were seen.  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com accommodation namiri-plains" target="_blank" Namiri Plains Camp  a  in the eastern Serengeti reported 100 different lion sightings in the space of eight days. And across the border in Kenya’s Masai Mara, the lions are so prolific that they once had their own BBC show,  em Big Cat Diary  em .  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Big 5 stand-off: buffalo versus lion...  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Their amber eyes can be mesmerising...  p 
 p Unlike their tawny-coated, amber-eyed brethren, white lions have snowy fur and beautiful blue eyes, making them incredibly photogenic. Their paleness is not albinism but rather due to a harmless genetic quirk known as leucism. Because they occur naturally in the Timbavati Game Reserve, which is located to the north of the  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com destinations sabi-sands-game-reserve why-go" target="_blank" Sabi Sands Private Game Reserve  a  on the western edge of Kruger National Park, their Latin name is  em Panthera leo krugeri  em . Timbavati is actually an anglicization of the traditional name 'Tsimba Vati', which means 'Place where the star lions fell to earth'.  p 
 p The Eastern Cape is fast-gaining a good reputation for easy, no-hassle Big 5 safaris because the area is temperate (no extremes of cold, heat or rain), malaria-free and child-friendly. A spell at Pumba Game Reserve is a great way to end a Garden Route self-drive vacation or a holiday to  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com destinations addo-elephant-national-park why-go" target="_blank" Addo Elephant National Park  a  - with the added bonus of perhaps spotting some white lions. Cubs were born in 2011 and 2015, adding to the fewer than 500 white lions currently found on Earth.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" A tawny &amp; white lion pair drink at a waterhole together.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" A striking looking white male lion stands out against the green foliage.  p 
 p If safaris to the Eastern Cape are straight-forward, then those to Sanbona Wildlife Reserve are even easier. Lying in the Little Karoo between the quaint towns of Barrydale and Montagu, Sanbona is a perfect detour on a  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com destinations garden-route tours-safaris" target="_blank" Garden Route self-drive  a  tour or a great stop-over if you're driving scenic Route 62. About three hours after leaving  a href="https:  www.go2africa.com destinations cape-town why-go" target="_blank" Cape Town  a , you'll be pulling up at Sanbona where the White Lion Project has already yielded cubs. The reserve is also home to the extremely endangered and little-seen riverine rabbit.  p 
 p The same colour as the savannah they live on, lions are as much part of the African landscape as its flat-topped acacia trees and red, crumbly earth. Regal in stature, disdainful of our presence, hearing their booming roars ring out at dusk as they gather to hunt is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Their calls are also a spine-tingling reminder that the wilderness still belongs to them.  p 
 p data-v-03e08c86 data-v-0136fc2c 
        Subscribe to the Go2Africa Safari Insider newsletter for exclusive offers, expert advice and fresh travel ideas.
        p 
 p data-v-031401ed  Yes, send me the Safari Insider Newsletter. You can unsubscribe at any time. See our
           a target="_blank" href=" privacy-policy" data-v-031401ed  Privacy Policy   a   p 
 p class="footer" data-v-03e08c86 
    Get the Go2Africa Safari Insider newsletter for exclusive offers and expert advice.
    p 
 p data-v-031401ed  Yes, send me the Safari Insider Newsletter. You can unsubscribe at any time. See our
           a target="_blank" href=" privacy-policy" data-v-031401ed  Privacy Policy   a   p 
 p class="social-text" data-v-33bf400b Connect with us  p 
 p data-v-0feabd67 Copyright © 2019 Go2Africa Pty (Ltd). All Rights Reserved  p 
 p class="footer" data-v-03e08c86 
    Subscribe to the Go2Africa Safari Insider newsletter for exclusive offers, expert advice and fresh travel ideas.
    p 
 p data-v-031401ed  Yes, send me the Safari Insider Newsletter. You can unsubscribe at any time. See our
           a target="_blank" href=" privacy-policy" data-v-031401ed  Privacy Policy   a   p 
