 p  span  span  span  span Animals should never be torn from their natural habitats, forced to live in cages and perform tricks.  span   span   span   span   p 
 p In the wake of tragic deaths of trainers at SeaWorld and pressure from animal protection groups including the Humane Society of the United States, the amusement park company made the compassionate decision to begin phasing out live orca exhibits and captive breeding programs.   p 
 p From roadside zoos and elephant rides to posing with baby tigers and swimming with dolphins, interactions with wild animals are both cruel and dangerous.  p 
 p Have passed since 2014 that protect wild animals in traveling shows.  p 
 p Do not currently have laws on keeping dangerous wild animals as pets: Alabama, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina and Wisconsin.  p 
 p Is the estimated life span of a killer whale in the wild—most orcas in captivity don't live past age 13.  p 
 p The Providing Responsible Emergency Plans for Animals at Risk of Emerging Disasters (PREPARED) Act, H.R. 1042, will require owners of animal-related businesses regulated under the Animal Welfare Act—including puppy mills, research facilities, zoos, circuses and aquariums—to have a disaster plan for the animals they house. Urge your U.S. Representative to cosponsor the PREPARED Act today!  p 
 p class="text-disclosure"  a href="https:  uplandsoftware.com mobile-messaging terms-and-conditions " target="_blank" Message and data rates  a  may apply. Reply STOP to opt out.  p 
 p © 2019 The Humane Society of the United States  a href=" privacy-policy" Privacy Policy &amp; Terms  a   p 
 p The Humane Society of the United States is registered as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions to the HSUS are tax deductible to the extent permitted by law. The HSUS's tax identification number is 53-0225390.  p 
 p 36 beagles are enduring a cruel and unnecessary pesticide test in a Michigan lab—they need your help right now.  p 
 p 36 beagles are enduring a cruel and unnecessary pesticide test in a Michigan lab—they need your help right now.  p 
