 p Asian elephants can eat up to 300 pounds of food in one day! That tends to wear out your teeth, so elephants have six sets of teeth that slowly grow and move from the back to the front of their mouth.  p 
 p Hanako recently was diagnosed with cancer in her front left foot.  p 
 p Our veterinary staff, led by head veterinarian, Dr. Karen Wolf, is working with a veterinary oncologist to treat the cancer, and Dr. Wolf reports she is pleased with the progress. Our experienced elephant care staff tends to Hanako’s needs daily and reports any changes they observe to the veterinary team.  p 
 p Hanako has been a beloved member of our Point Defiance Zoo family for the past 21 years. Our staff and guests have developed strong bonds with her. We don’t know how much time she has left, but we know she will live out her life at Point Defiance Zoo under the expert care of our experienced elephant keepers and veterinarians who know her well.  p 
 p At 55, she is considered a geriatric elephant and has already surpassed the median life expectancy of 47 for a female Asian elephant.  p 
 p Suki, our other female Asian elephant, is also a super-senior at 54. Like Hanako she participates in routine exercise and enrichment programs and regularly receives special treats like the watermelons they both love to stomp and eat.  p 
 p  strong THE THREAT:  strong  Asian elephants are endangered in the wild. As a result of human poaching for their ivory tusks, as well as loss of their habitat due to human encroachment, their numbers are dwindling.  p 
 p  strong TAKE ACTION:  strong  Never buy wildlife products – especially ivory. Support laws that stop wildlife trafficking and catch poachers. This will help other species too, like rhinos, tigers and sharks.  p 
 p Zoological Aide Katie Schachtsick holds a long-handled back-scratcher and applies just the right amount of pressure as she rubs it across the black-and-white hide of endangered Malayan tapir Yuna. It’s clear Yuna enjoys the attention – and the back rub – leaning into the scratcher and then moving her stout legs down, getting into a …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org tapir-ultrasound " Continued  a   p 
 p Cross your paws. And think of tiger cubs! Our endangered female Sumatran tigers, 5-year-old Kali and 4-year-old Kirana, could be pregnant. Both were artificially inseminated Jan. 30 with sperm from 14-year-old Mohan. We won’t know for a few weeks if a pregnancy resulted, but if successful, tiger cubs would be born in May. But it …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org ai-for-tigers " Continued  a   p 
 p We’re all feeling the cold right about now in the Pacific Northwest – and the rest of the country too. But here at Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium, our animals have some pretty cool ways to deal with it. From fur coats to heated hammocks, here are five ways our animals beat the winter cold. …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org 5-animals-that-beat-the-cold " Continued  a   p 
