 p  strong Ready to get the lowdown on these gentle giants, gang? Check out our ten  em elephant-  em astic elephant facts!  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p  strong 1)  strong  There are  em three   em different species of elephant – the  strong African Savannah elephant  strong , the  strong African Forest elephant   strong and the  strong Asian elephant  strong . Elephants are known for their  strong large ears  strong ,  strong tusks made of ivory   strong and their  strong trunks   strong – which are actually a fusion of their nose and upper lip.  p 
 p  strong 2)   strong Elephants are the world’s  strong largest land animal  strong ! Male African elephants can reach  strong 3m tall  strong  and  strong weigh between 4,000 -7,500kg  strong . Asian elephants are slightly smaller, reaching  strong 2.7m   strong tall and weighing  strong 3,000  strong –  strong 6,000kg  strong . They are known for their large  strong ears  strong ,  strong tusks   strong made of  strong ivory   strong and their  strong trunks   strong – which are actually a fusion of their  strong nose   strong and  strong upper lip  strong .  p 
 p  strong 3)  strong  There’s an easy way to tell the African elephants apart from their Asian cousins – their ears! African elephants have large ears  strong shaped like the continent of Africa  strong ! Asian elephants’ ears are smaller and  strong shaped like India  strong . Cool, huh?  p 
 p  strong 4)  strong  You can tell a lot about an elephant by looking at their tusks! Elephant tusks  strong never stop growing  strong , so enormous tusks can be a sign of an old elephant. Both male and female African elephants grow tusks, but only  strong  em male   em Asian elephants   strong grow them. A tusk-less adult elephant is likely to be a female Asian elephant.  p 
 p  strong 5)  strong  Until recently, African Forest elephants were thought to be a  strong subspecies   strong of the African elephant, but new research discovered that they are actually  strong a separate species   strong entirely strong .  strong  These elephants live in the tropical forests of  strong Africa’s Congo Basin.   strong They have straighter tusks and more rounded ears than Savannah elephants.  p 
 p  strong 6)  strong  These magnificent mammals spend between  strong 12 to 18  em hours   em   strong eating  strong grass  strong ,  strong plants  strong  and  strong fruit  strong  every single day! They use their long trunks to smell their food and lift it up into their mouth –  em yum  em !  p 
 p  strong 7)  strong  All that eating means one thing, gang, an awful lot of  strong poo  strong ! Each elephant creates about one tonne of poo per week, which keeps the  strong soil   strong  strong fertile  strong  and  strong disperses tree seeds  strong . Elephants also  strong dig   strong waterholes and  strong create footpaths  strong , literally changing the landscape around them!  p 
 p  strong 8)  strong  In  strong Mount Elgon National Park   strong in  strong Kenya  strong , a group of elephants use their tusks to mine for salt in  strong underground caves  strong ! They feel their way around with their trunks and eat the salts by breaking them off with their tusks.  p 
 p  strong 9)  strong  Elephants have created their very own  strong sunscreen  strong ! After a river or swamp bath, they’ll throw mud and sand up and over themselves to protect their skin from the hot, burning sun. Clever!  p 
 p  strong 10)  strong  Sadly, elephants are in trouble. Many are killed by humans for their  strong ivory  strong  tusks, because they’ve come into conflict with communities or simply for sport. There are far fewer  strong Asian elephants   strong (which are categorised as  strong Endangered  strong ) than there are  strong African elephants   strong (listed as  strong Vulnerable   strong – at risk of becoming Endangered). Asian elephants also face threats from  strong tourist attractions  strong  where people pay to ride on their backs or watch them paint pictures using their trunks.  a href="https:  www.natgeokids.com discover animals evanna-lynch-interview " target="_blank" rel="noopener" Click here to learn more about threats to the Asian elephant and what is being done to help.  a   p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p I think that Elephant are smart by what they do like they make there own sunscreen that is smart. I do know is that they can remader were a waterhole is that is smart too.  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
