 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;"  strong Travel and Do Good  strong   p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Chiang Mai, Thailand  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;"  a href=" waterfalls-elephants" Book Your Adventure  a   p 
 p style="white-space:pre-wrap;" Ready for an adventure? You can reserve a day trip or a multi-day tour. Hidden forest temples, idyllic waterfalls and remote, off the beaten path homestays are our specialties.  Choose From  a href=" 2-day-amazing-trekking-adventure" Overnight  a  or  a href=" tours-and-treks" 1-Day Adventures Start Your Adventure →  a ﻿  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;" The Chai Lai Orchid is so much more than a hotel. We are Daughters Rising, anti-trafficking organization, fighting  exploitation. By providing a safe home, education and employment, we empower our sisters here to rise above poverty and help their communities. In a context of unethical tourism, we strive to be different: by prioritising social transformation over profit, we believe we can change our environment, our community, and all of our lives for the better.  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;"  a href=" what-we-do" target="_blank" Our Mission  a   a href="https:  www.chailaiorchid.com news 2017 5 19 the-impact-of-tourism-on-indigenous-communities-in-thailand" →  a   p 
 p adventure  p 
 p  a href=" waterfalls-elephants" VOLUNTEER WITH ELEPHANTS + 2 WATERFALLS + HIKING + RAFTING  a   p 
 p style="white-space:pre-wrap;" Satisfy your wanderlust and do good with an elephant and waterfalls trek. This once-in-a-lifetime adventure will lead you deep into the wild jungle hunting hidden waterfalls, before a leisurely ride on a bamboo raft to meet a family of elephants. Walk with the elephants through their forest habitat in the afternoon, then bathe and play with them in the river. Finally, head back to the city down mountain roads as the sun sets. This one day trek allows you to experience the best of Northern Thailand’s landscapes, Karen hill tribe culture, and incredible wildlife in one precious day.  a href=" waterfalls-elephants" Learn more  a   p 
 p Celebrate Love  p 
 p HONEYMOON AND WEDDING PACKAGES with ELEPHANTS, BUDDHIST BLESSINGS and SKY LANTERNS  p 
 p  a href=" wedding" Learn More →  a   p 
 p style="white-space:pre-wrap;" "Beyond magical and more than we could have ever dreamed of. My husband and I made the decision to elope while we were in Thailand, and found Alexa at the Chai Lai Orchid through the photographer we chose. After we were put in touch with Alexa, she went out of her way to make sure every detail that we could have wanted was put in place and ready for our special day. From my hair and make up, to the wedding cake of our choice, our day was specially put together for us and everything was beautiful perfection. We couldn’t have planned anything more perfect and would recommend The Chai Lai to anyone for their once in a lifetime occasion. We are eternally grateful for our experience, and look forward to returning for our anniversary adventure" - Trina  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;" Enjoy the luxuries of nature, then melt the stresses away in your private bungalow. Each bungalow comes with a fan or A C, so you can cool off even on the warmest of days. The common area is well-stocked with food, drinks, and WiFi - so you can spend the day playing with elephants and enjoying the wonders of the jungle, before sharing your experiences with friends back home.  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;"  a href=" chai-lai-orchid" Learn More →  a   p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;" Unwind in a bungalow over the waterfalls after hiking through beautiful mountain landscapes and lush rice paddies. Absorb the simple pleasure of a hammock in the mountain sun. Unplug from the virtual world (no electricity or WiFi at this retreat!) and reconnect with nature. Cool off in hidden jungle waterfalls, secluded streams and enjoy happy hour while bamboo rafting down a river. 2-3 days  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;"  a href=" eco-lodge" Learn More →  a   p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;"  Wherever we go, we leave something behind: our economic impact, our environmental footprint, our words, our attitudes, our ideas....  p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;"  a href="https:  www.chailaiorchid.com news 2017 5 19 the-impact-of-tourism-on-indigenous-communities-in-thailand" Learn more →  a   p 
 p style="text-align:center;white-space:pre-wrap;" Copyright 2019  p 
