 p Stop the Killing  p 
 p Stop the Trafficking   p 
 p Stop the Demand  p 
 p Stop the Killing  p 
 p Stop the Trafficking   p 
 p Stop the Demand  p 
 p class="subhead white" DONATE  p 
 p class="uc brown small nomargin" Conservation Status:  p 
 p class="uc" Quick Facts  p 
 p class="center"  a href="https:  www.awf.org sites default files media elephant_sound.ogg"  span class="sprite listen"   span Listen to the sound of the elephant  a   p 
 p Loxodonta africana  p 
 p 2,000 to 6,100 kilograms (about 2 to 7 tons)  p 
 p Up to 4 meters (13 feet)  p 
 p 60 to 70 years  p 
 p Open and closed savanna, grasslands, and arid deserts  p 
 p Herbivorous  p 
 p About 22 months  p 
 p Humans and occasionally lions or hyenas  p 
 p class="us" Habitat  p 
 p They will live in almost any habitat that provides plentiful food and water. Their populations are scattered throughout the savannas of sub-Saharan Africa. About 70 percent of their range exists in protected land.  p 
 p class="small" 
 span class="left" Tags:  a href=" wildlife-conservation elephant" Elephant  a ,  a href=" country " Benin  a ,  a href=" country botswana" Botswana  a ,  a href=" country burkina-faso" Burkina Faso  a ,  a href=" country cameroon" Cameroon  a ,  a href=" country drc" DRC  a ,  a href=" country kenya" Kenya  a ,  a href=" country mozambique" Mozambique  a ,  a href=" country namibia" Namibia  a ,  a href=" country niger" Niger  a ,  a href=" country rwanda" Rwanda  a ,  a href=" country south-africa" South Africa  a ,  a href=" country tanzania" Tanzania  a ,  a href=" country uganda" Uganda  a ,  a href=" country zambia" Zambia  a ,  a href=" country zimbabwe" Zimbabwe  a ,  a href=" landscape congo" Congo  a ,  a href=" landscape kilimanjaro" Kilimanjaro  a ,  a href=" landscape regional-parc-w" Regional Parc W  a ,  a href=" landscape samburu" Samburu  a ,  a href=" landscape virunga" Virunga  a ,  a href=" landscape zambezi" Zambezi  a ,  a href=" region east-africa" East Africa  a ,  a href=" region southern-africa" Southern Africa  a   span 
 span class="right"  a href="#" class="active" rel="zoom" data-zoom="4" View Africa  a  |  a href="#" rel="zoom" data-zoom="6" Habitat  a 
  span 
  p 
 p class="us" Physical Characteristics  p 
 p They are the world’s largest terrestrial mammal. There are two recognized subspecies of African elephants: the savanna (bush) and the forest elephant. Savanna elephants are larger than forest elephants and their tusks curve out, while forest elephants are darker and have tusks that are straighter and that point downward.  p 
 p class="us" Behavior &amp; Diet  p 
 p Their trunk is a long nose that is used for breathing, smelling, drinking, trumpeting, and grabbing objects. Their trunks are also a grooming tool. Grooming consists of using their trunks to cover themselves with mud or water to maintain hydration. They have two fingerlike extensions on the tips of their trunks that are used for holding onto small objects. They also use their trunks to exhibit affection, by frequently touching and caressing one another.  p 
 p It’s no great surprise these large animals love to eat. Elephants’ diet consists of grasses, fruits, roots, and bark, and spend the majority of their day roaming across large distances foraging for food. They can eat up to 136 kilograms (300 pounds) of food and drink 113 to 190 liters (30 to 50 gallons) of water in one day.  p 
 p Much like humans, they are social creatures that live in small family groups that usually consist of an older matriarch and several generations of female relatives. Males are typically solitary once matured but may live in small groups of three or four bulls. They take care of weak or injured members and even appear to grieve over dead companions.  p 
 p The large tusks on either side of their face—used for foraging for food and water—have long been desired by people. The ivory trade is driven by consumer demand for products made from elephant tusks and supplied by a sophisticated international network of traffickers. Poachers kill this iconic species for its ivory tusks, which are then sold and made into anything from jewelry and crafts to musical instruments to religious objects. At current poaching rates, elephant populations may be extinct in the wild within our lifetimes.  p 
 p They have longer pregnancies than almost any other mammal. They carry their calves for about 22 months, with cows usually bearing only one calf every three to six years. Their regeneration rate averages 5 to 6 percent annually, compared to the 8 to 9 percent poaching rates, resulting in a net loss in population numbers. Elephants are threatened with extinction as they are unable to sustain current population numbers if the high rate of poaching continues unabated.  p 
 p class="subhead" Our solutions to protecting and conserving the African savanna elephant:  p 
 p Wildlife corridors are large sections of land that allow wildlife to move from one national park to another—and even from one country to another. African Wildlife Foundation works with people on all levels— from governments to communities—to set land aside specifically for wildlife use, and in some cases, purchase land to set it aside for conservation. Habitat management poses a long-term threat to elephant population well-being. AWF is working in countries like Zambia to create protected spaces. To allow the elephant to move safely and freely, we worked with Zambia’s Sekute Chiefdom to create the Sekute Conservation Area, and in exchange for protecting wild spaces for wildlife, AWF rebuilt the Lupani School.  p 
 p AWF works with communities who live in close quarters with wildlife, to recruit, train, and equip wildlife scouts. Scouts monitor elephants and can prevent them from destroying crops, thereby preventing farmers from viewing them as pests, Scouts are also instrumental in deterring poachers. As a result, AWF can ensure enhanced protection of wildlife in these regions, like the Osupuko and Kitome Conservancies in Kenya, as well as provide additional employment opportunities to local communities. 11 of the 14 of the elephant populations AWF works with are now stable or increasing.  p 
 p The remaining 415,000 of Africa’s savanna elephants have new hope for their future with China’s official announcement to shut down its domestic ivory trade - making it illegal to sell and buy ivory in the country. Since 2012, AWF has worked to fight the demand for elephant ivory in China and across the world, along with partner Wildaid and celebrity ambassadors like former NBA star, Yao Ming, actor Jackie Chan, and Virgin Group founder Sir Richard Branson. These celebrity public awareness campaigns shed light on the ivory trade’s impact on populations and demonstrate the true horrors of elephant poaching. Since they first launched, public awareness around ivory products has increased, and tolerance for ivory products is decreasing. China’s commitment to implementing the ban on domestic ivory trade in 2018 will contribute to curbing poaching and the illegal trade in wildlife products.  p 
 p We’re facing a shortfall. Don’t let elephants pay the price.  u Give now to help raise $105,861.  u   p 
 p  a href="https:  secure.awf.org fy19lifeboat?utm_source=1902lifeboatinterior&amp;utm_medium=web&amp;utm_campaign=fy19lifeboat&amp;ms=B19A20E02W" &gt; Donate now  a   p 
 p class="brown" AWF protects nearly 40 % of Africa's elephants. Support our programs to stop elephant poaching and ivory trafficking.  p 
 p class="subhead white"  img src=" sites all themes awf img SPRITES donateheart.png" DONATE  p 
 p class="subhead brown"  a href=" news kaddu-sebunya-lead-awf" Kaddu Sebunya to Lead AWF  a   p 
 p class="subtext"  span class="date-display-single" January 15, 2019  span   p 
 p class="brown" The African Wildlife Foundation is excited to announce the appointment of Mr. Kaddu Kiwe Sebunya as the new Chief Executive Officer...  p 
 p style="margin-top: -1.25rem"  a class="italic carrot" href=" news kaddu-sebunya-lead-awf" Read more  a   p 
 p News  p 
 p class="italic orange text-right" ›View Gallery  p 
 p class="subhead" 
	Become a member  p 
 p 
	Join African Wildlife Foundation as a member for just $25. Your partnership is vital to our mission to protect Africa’s most precious - and imperiled - creatures.  p 
 p 
	 a class="btn golden" href="https:  secure.awf.org membership" Join Now  a   p 
 p class="subhead" Spread the word i class="sprite share-orange right"   i   p 
 p 
	 span class="red" Note:  span  We’ll need to convert your donation to USD for processing, so you’ll see this amount through checkout. You will still be charged in your native currency.  p 
 p 
	With your donation you'll receive:  p 
