 p This  a href="http:  www.ifaw.org united-states" target="_blank" IFAW  a  initiative preserves critical elephant habitat, securing migration corridors to protected areas in Tanzania, while supporting surrounding Maasai communities to participate in community scouting using high-tech data analysis.  p 
 p Founded in 1969, IFAW works to save individual animals, animal populations and habitats all over the world. With projects in more than 40 countries, IFAW focuses its efforts on protecting animals and populations from cruelty and disaster-influenced suffering, commercial exploitation and habitat degradation.  p 
 p class="supergraphic__copy" Through collaborative partnerships, we support innovative projects that protect vulnerable wildlife from extinction, while restoring balance to threatened ecosystems and communities. Our work is divided into six main program areas – Wildlands Conservation, Oceans Conservation, Climate Change, Indigenous Rights, Transforming California, and Innovative Solutions.  p 
 p Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation will use the information you provide on this form to be in touch with you and to provide updates and marketing. Please check the box below if you would like to hear from us via email:  p 
 p style="display: none" You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please check out our  a href="https:  www.leonardodicaprio.org privacy-policy "  privacy policy  a .  p 
 p We use MailChimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to MailChimp for processing. Learn more about MailChimp's privacy practices  a href="https:  mailchimp.com legal " target="_blank" here  a .  p 
 p A new massive open online course on Environmental Security starting on February 11.  p 
 p It’s possible to stay below the threshold of 1.5˚C in global temperature rise, addressing the climate crisis through three pillars of action.  p 
 p A new international roadmap aims to save Latin America’s iconic feline.  p 
