 p Just days after a frightened  a href="http:  www.bbc.com news world-asia-india-35519414" target="_blank" leopard strayed into a school  a  in the southern Indian city of Bangalore, residents in another part of the country experienced a close wildlife encounter of their own when an elephant trampled through their village.    p 
 p The large animal reportedly destroyed huts, fences and vehicles in the  span West Bengal town of   span  span Siliguri after emerging from a neighbouring forest. The upheaval lasted for hours until   span wildlife authorities were finally able to tranquilise the elephant, before using cranes to relocate it to an animal rescue facility. It will be released back into the wild once it recovers from the ordeal,  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk news worldnews asia india 12150065 Wild-elephant-rampages-through-Indian-town.html" target="_blank" reports say  a .  p 
 p dir="ltr" Elephant rampages in east Indian town, smashing homes.  a href="https:  t.co 3W7aeAObwp" https:  t.co 3W7aeAObwp  a   a href="https:  twitter.com hashtag elephantrampage?src=hash" #elephantrampage  a   a href="https:  twitter.com hashtag India?src=hash" #India  a   a href="https:  t.co CkI8LixNu7" pic.twitter.com CkI8LixNu7  a   p 
 p    p 
 p Although no serious injuries were reported, both of these recent incidents underscore the  a href="http:  www.theguardian.com environment terra-india 2014 mar 18 india-maneating-tiger-wildlife-conflict" target="_blank" growing conflict span  between humans and wildlife  span   a  across India. As its human population grows and forest cover shrinks, large (and potentially destructive) animals like elephants are simply running out of room.   p 
 p Dangerous encounters like this one are the result – and they're becoming  a href="http:  www.huffingtonpost.com 2011 06 08 wild-elephants-attack-kill-india-video_n_873183.html" target="_blank" increasingly common  a  across the country. Experts say  a href="http:  www.worldwildlife.org species indian-elephant" target="_blank" habitat destruction is a major factor,  a  and elephants in particular are prone to invading nearby villages when suitable food and space become scarce.  p 
 p Asian elephants are listed as  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 7140 0" target="_blank" endangered by the IUCN  a , and are also threatened by poaching and illegal trade.  p 
 p __   p 
 p Top header image:  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos drriss 23974766950 in photolist-CwyWWS-asncCW-3WZLxy-fbHZiJ-2irXxt-8W5b5-LTu8J-4phBr-dAiu2i-711Vae-5A22u6-8qhMmo-wR3eF-8ZbAg6-t8gHbJ-ER2Gr-6qw9s4-3gbRFt-hM3Pou-8fSAT2-bk2SrC-hspxW8-cyCTVS-bmSKEP-8oLSVV-6eNdp4-55DpPM-4EQTHz-ayEY23-bJPBSz-7PqvVM-91Bw4n-gP8ut-EskQY-goZeKp-oGSu1-aqLEXZ-hM3Ydn-8ZeGLN-wR35F-5A6iWb-s4L6cE-fobC-5A6j2C-8ZbJeG-7hkkhB-wR3Ep-uanXRn-dw3hh-b2apEi" target="_blank" Drriss &amp; Marrionn, Flickr  a   p 
 p 
                            Earth Touch is built on a simple philosophy: nature's stories should be told with passion and imagination.  a href=" contributors contributor?mId=2532" VIEW more from this CONTRIBUTOR  a 
                          p 
 p Our planet is a busy, crazy place. And amidst all the noise, voices get lost and some stories are never heard. That’s especially true of our planet’s countless wild species: big and small, threatened and persecuted, complex and fascinating.  p 
 p For our growing team of writers and contributors, those are the stories that matter most: we dedicate our time to them all day and every day. In a world bursting with news, nature is our niche – and we love it that way.  p 
 p You, our viewers, are passionate about these stories we tell. Take your passion further by supporting and driving more of the nature news you know and love.  p 
 p Baby buffalo - 1, Elephant - 0.  p 
 p There are plenty of animals you might expect to run into while cruising the ocean waters miles from the nearest shore ... but an elephant?!   p 
 p It's time we talk about the elephant on the roof.  p 
 p Get the latest nature news, views and videos delivered to your inbox.  p 
