 p class="header-p" 
							 span class="icon-info" 
								 img src=" content dam wrs commons icons icon-info.png" alt="info" 
							  span 
							 span class="text"  span class="red-hightlight" The following exhibit will be closed due to upgrading works: br 
  br 
 1.  b White Tiger   b (6 Mar - 3 May 2019)  span   span 
						  p 
 p class="label" Opening hours  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p class="label" Singapore Zoo  p 
 p 8.30am - 6.00pm (Last entry at 5.30pm)  p 
 p class="label" Rainforest Kidzworld  p 
 p 9.00am - 6.00pm  p 
 p Lifespan  p 
 p Diet  p 
 p Habitat  p 
 p Range  p 
 p Rules over her herd with an ‘iron’ trunk, keeping the younger elephants in their place. Very protective of those who’ve earned her trust – elephants and humans alike.  p 
 p 
  p 
 p Komali’s loyal sidekick, friend and protector. The bond between them is so strong that even if Komali moves a short distance away, Jati will start calling for her.  p 
 p Lone ranger, does not belong to any of the cliques in the herd. Stands her ground, even with Komali. Has a special soft spot for Aprila, her younger half-sister.  p 
 p    p 
 p Orphaned at the age of two, Gambir was cared for by Anusha, late matriarch of the herd. In the same way, Gambir now dotes on Aprila, as she would her own daughter.   p 
 p Intan's unofficial boss alpha sibling. Also has the backing of self-appointed mother figure, Gambir. Has a voracious appetite – ‘vacuums’ all leftovers.   p 
 p We provide key support for the mitigation of human-elephant conflicts br 
(HEC)  in Way Kambas National Park, Indonesia. To mitigate HEC, Elephant Response Units (ERUs) of trained elephants and their mahouts form forest patrols, herding wild elephants away from farmland and back to the protected areas. br 
  p 
 p The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is widely recognized as the most comprehensive, objective global approach for evaluating the conservation status of plant and animal species.  p 
 p At relatively low risk of extinction  p 
 p Likely to become vulnerable in the near future  p 
 p At high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At very high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At extremely high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p Survives only in captivity  p 
 p No surviving individuals in the wild or in captivity  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p 80 Mandai Lake Road Singapore 729826   p 
 p class="copy"  span © Copyright 2018, Wildlife Reserves Singapore Group. All rights reserved.  span   p 
