 p class="site-title" itemprop="headline"  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org " Cincinnati Zoo &amp; Botanical Garden®  a   p 
 p class="site-description" itemprop="description" Home of the world famous hippo Fiona.  Family friendly Zoo committed to inspiring visitors with wildlife and saving species.  p 
 p class="entry-meta" Posted  time class="entry-time" itemprop="datePublished" datetime="2018-09-27T12:16:14-04:00" September 27, 2018  time   p 
 p  strong  em  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org system assets uploads 2018 09 vr-pepper.png" rel="attachment wp-att-200596"  img class="alignright wp-image-200596 size-medium" src="http:  cincinnatizoo.org system assets uploads 2018 09 vr-pepper-300x148.png" alt="Virtual Reality view of elephant habitat" width="300" height="148"   a World-renowned elephant expert visits to help shape plan    em   strong   p 
 p  strong CINCINNATI (September 27, 2018) –  strong Cincinnati Zoo &amp; Botanical Garden announced its  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org support more-home-to-roam " More Home to Roam  a  capital campaign earlier this year and, as funds are raised, is progressing with plans for the final and most ambitious phase of the project – Elephant Trek. The Zoo has brought in world-renowned elephant expert  a href="https:  www.zoophoria.net single-post 2018 01 29 Architect-of-Animal-Experiences-A-Conversation-with-Gerry-Creighton-Operations-Manager-Animals-and-Grounds-and-Elephant-Program-Manager-at-the-Dublin-Zoo" Gerry Creighton  a  to share best practices for creating a complex habitat for a multi-generational herd, which is what Cincinnati hopes to have in the future.  p 
 p Creighton, who is recognized for influencing the modern approach to elephant management and care and runs the elephant program at the Dublin Zoo, took a virtual tour of the proposed habitat and confirmed that Cincinnati is on the right track.  “Our focus at the Dublin Zoo is on animal wellness, and it’s clear that Cincinnati Zoo is considering the biological, social, emotional and physical needs of the elephants in its master plan.”  p 
 p The Zoo brought Creighton to Cincinnati to speak to animal staff, board members, habitat designers and potential donors about successes and lessons learned during the process of shifting their approach to elephant management.  “We created an environment, inspired by nature, that lets elephants be elephants and encourages species specific behaviors.  The elephants learn from each other instead of getting instructions from keepers.  Nine elephants have been born at the Dublin Zoo in the ten years that we’ve been managing them this way,” said Creighton.  p 
 p  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org support more-home-to-roam " rel="attachment wp-att-200042"  img class="alignleft wp-image-200042 size-medium" src="http:  cincinnatizoo.org system assets uploads 2018 07 smallhome-300x172.jpg" alt="Small more home to roam header" width="300" height="172"   a “Dublin Zoo’s elephant program is phenomenal, and Gerry is the architect of that model” said Zoo Director Thane Maynard.  “We’re committed to building a better home for our elephants and inspired by what Gerry has done. Our hope is to see a herd of happy elephants roaming where a parking lot used to be, and we’re working hard to raise funds to make it happen.”  p 
 p Plans for the new habitat include natural elements like trees, mud wallows, grasses, pools, streams, and, best of all, plenty of room for these magnificent mammals to explore. People have been considered in the plans too.  Zoo visitors will enjoy watching the elephant herd roam their 4-acre habitat from a shaded gazebo or while having a snack on the patio of a new café.  p 
 p  strong More Home to Roam   strong is a bold, $150-million campaign with the goal to provide better homes for the Zoo’s animals and a better Zoo for visitors. The Zoo will break ground on the first phase of the project, an additional entry, in a few days.   strong Other highlights include:  strong   p 
 p  strong    strong   p 
 p •         15,000-sq.-foot Kangaroo Walkabout  p 
 p •         Little blue penguin underwater viewing  p 
 p •         Adventure ropes course for all abilities  p 
 p •         Multi-tiered Beer Garden  p 
 p  strong Entry Village  strong   p 
 p •         Ten new ticketing windows  p 
 p •         More family style restrooms  p 
 p •         More space for strollers &amp; wheelchairs  p 
 p •         Calming room  p 
 p  strong Safe Efficient Visitor Access  strong   p 
 p •         1,800 car parking garage  p 
 p •         Alleviates local parking &amp; traffic issues  p 
 p    p 
 p •         Multiple outdoor yards for mixed species, expanded moats and visitor viewing area  p 
 p  strong Polar Bears  strong   p 
 p •         New environment conducive to breeding, isolated denning for female bears, natural substrates  p 
 p  strong Net Zero Energy Water Waste  strong   p 
 p •          Capture 100% of rainwater to be used in habitats.  p 
 p •          Net Zero energy through efficiency in existing systems, and pursuing advanced technologies in wind, solar, biomass.  p 
 p •          Proper Organic waste management to become zero waste facility  p 
 p  strong Elephant Trek  strong   p 
 p  a href="https:  cincinnatizoo.thankyou4caring.org pages capital-campaign"  strong Donate today  strong   a  to help the Zoo give animals  a href="http:  cincinnatizoo.org support more-home-to-roam "  strong More Home to Roam  strong   a  strong !  strong   p 
