 p Giraffes, ostriches, warthog and zebra are not visible due to habitat construction.  p 
 p This is one of the most distinctive animals on the planet. African elephants are the largest of the three elephant species. Elephants have many unique characteristics, and the secrets of some of their adaptations are still being discovered to this day. Elephants live long and very social lives centered around a matriarch and her offspring. The illegal killing of elephants for ivory represents a serious and pressing threat to the future of this species.  p 
 p  label Scientific name:  label   em Loxodonta africana  em   p 
 p  label diet:  label  Herbivore  p 
 p  label range:  label Eastern Africa, Middle Africa, Western Africa  a class="fancybox smaller" href="https:  3sn4dm1qd6i72l8a4r2ig7fl-wpengine.netdna-ssl.com wp-content uploads 2016 11 african_elephant_species-map.png" [VIEW MAP]  a   p 
 p  label habitat:  label Deserts, Forests, Grasslands, Woodlands  p 
 p At least one of the two elephants can be seen virtually anytime, either in their outdoor habitat or inside the barn. The elephants may choose to be indoors on colder days. Zoo guests can meet and feed an elephant during an African elephant Wild Encounter.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label General Information:  label   p 
 p African elephants are one of only three species of the mammalian Order Proboscidea, an order that survived the extinctions of the Pleistocene era. The trunk acts as a fifth appendage unlike anything else among vertebrates and has incredible strength and finesse. Elephants live in family groups headed up by a female matriarch who spends decades imparting knowledge of their region and the subtleties of elephant social norms to other herd members. These family groups communicate with one another over long distances with low-frequency sounds carried through the soil and detected by the front feet. Elephants travel long distances seeking food and water and following seasonal rain patterns. Their diet generally consists of woody vegetation and grasses that are relatively low in calories and nutrients. As a result, their daily intake of food can be hundreds of pounds per day. Their tusks are working tools to manipulate their environment, but are also a highly-valued human commodity for the illegal ivory trade. The recent escalation of large-scale organized crime syndicates poaching elephants for ivory is changing the dynamic of the landscape in Africa, suddenly and dramatically introducing the possibility of a world without wild African elephants.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Physical Features and Characteristics:  label   p 
 p Male African elephants can reach 14,000 pounds and 13 feet in height. Females are a bit smaller, reaching 10,000 pounds and 10 feet in height. The distinctive ears serve several functions, including their most obvious function – forming a large surface to intercept distant or faint sounds. This is the same concept as a radar dish: the larger the dish, the more sound waves it can intercept. The ears also contain many blood vessels that help regulate an elephant’s body temperature in hot conditions. The ears also serve as a visual signal to other elephants.  p 
 p  strong Sound Detection  strong  br 
Elephants can detect sounds over great distances, detecting these sounds with their front feet. They have large fat pads inside the bottoms of their front feet, placing their feet in solid contact with the soil. At any given time, an elephant may be sensing low-frequency sounds which are airborne or carried in the soul. Elephant vocalizations also include very low frequencies, and like whales communicating in the ocean, can communicate across miles.  p 
 p  strong Trunk  strong  br 
An elephant’s trunk contains thousands of muscles, many of which attach to the skin of the trunk. A series of long muscles runs along the length of the trunk to raise, lower, or move it from side to side. Other, shorter muscles are perpendicular to the length of the trunk, while others are wrapped like a barber pole along the length of the trunk, producing the trunk’s unique twisting abilities. Thanks to this system of muscles, an elephant’s trunk is not only extremely powerful, but is also delicate enough to manipulate and pick up very small objects.  p 
 p The nostrils at the end of an elephant’s trunk are capable of suction strong enough to draw about 1.5 gallons of water, although elephants cannot drink through their trunks. Instead, they draw water with their trunks, squirt it into their mouths, and swallow.  p 
 p  strong Sense of Smell  strong  br 
In terms of their sense of smell, elephants appear to be superior to many other animals. Recent research suggests that African elephants have more than 2,000 genes dedicated to scent discrimination – that’s twice as many as dogs have, and more than five times what humans have.  p 
 p  strong Tusks and Teeth  strong  br 
An elephant’s tusks are actually two its upper middle teeth. Young elephants have temporary tusks, much like human baby teeth, that fall out at around 3 years of age and are replaced by the adult tusks. The tusks grow throughout the elephant’s adult life to counter the wear and tear these tools experience.  p 
 p An elephant’s only other teeth are its four massive molars, which also experience heavy wear as the animal chews abrasive woody plants and grasses. These are pushed forward as they wear down and are replaced by a new set of molars developing behind them. This can happen as many as six times in an elephant’s life. The fossil record contains many of these cast-off molars from across all the continents where the elephant’s extinct relatives, such as the mastodon, once roamed.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Lifestyle and Reproduction:  label   p 
 p African elephants live longer than any other non-human land mammal, with a lifespan of 50 to 55 years. Females can begin to reproduce in their teens and in some cases may continue to reproduce into their 40s. Males typically don’t breed before they are in their early 20s, as competition for mating can be tough.  p 
 p The gestation period is also the longest of non-human land mammals at approximately 22 months. After about two years a single calf is born, weighing in between 200 and 250 pounds. Twin births are extremely rare for African elephants. In the wild, mating season takes place during the rainy season so that offspring are born just prior to the rains two years, later allowing for abundant resources to support a nursing mother. Infant elephants will nurse for six to 18 months, but some calves may continue to nurse for well over five years.  p 
 p The trunk of a newborn elephant doesn’t have any muscle tone, so newborn elephants will nurse with their mouths and not their trunks. It takes several months to a year for a calf to gain full control over its trunk and be able to use it purposefully. Male elephants will leave their natal groups as they near sexual maturity and may become part of a more fluid all-male herd.  p 
 p  strong Social Behavior and Intelligence  strong  br 
Elephant families, or herds, comprise a few to over 100 individuals, some biologically related and some not. The herd is led by the oldest female, called a matriarch. Males typically leave the herd between the ages of 12-15 at which time they may join a larger bachelor herd with other males or live a solitary life.  p 
 p African elephants are very intelligent and have demonstrated advanced memory capabilities. This memory is what aids the matriarch in locating food and water each season, especially during the dry seasons when the herd may need to be led for longer distances to find abundant resources. With the additional conservation challenges of habitat loss and fragmentation, poaching, and climate change, water and food are harder to find and require memories of watering holes from long ago. When matriarchs are poached it becomes the responsibility of the next oldest to lead the group, and these younger females may not possess memories old enough to find important resources for group survival. In addition to the cognitive capacity for extensive memory, elephants also exhibit behaviors of grief or mourning, anger, and play.  p 
 p At least one of the two elephants can be seen virtually anytime, either in their outdoor habitat or inside the barn. The elephants may choose to be indoors on colder days. Zoo guests can meet and feed an elephant during an African elephant Wild Encounter.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Range:  label   p 
 p African elephants once ranged across most of sub-Saharan Africa. Human developments and population sizes in the last century have now restricted elephants to populations that are socially and genetically isolated in game reserves and national parks, and they are now extinct in several countries where they once were common.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Habitat:  label   p 
 p Across sub-Saharan Africa, these elephants use a variety of seasonally dry savannas and sparse woodlands. They can be found in relatively dense thorn scrub habitat and even in deserts, but this species does not occur in rainforests. Seasonal migrations to flooded grasslands and deltas during the wet season is a crucial part of the annual cycle of some populations.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Diet:  label   p 
 p Elephants are non-ruminating herbivores. Unlike ruminant animals such as cows, which have several phases of digestion, elephants process their food in only a single-pass through, meaning that they must consume large quantities of food. An African elephant may eat 200 to 300 pounds of food a day, mostly in the form of grasses supplemented by bark, leaves, twigs, roots and some fruits, seeds and flowers. Elephants may also drink 20 to 30 gallons of water a day.  p 
 p At Zoo Atlanta, the elephants are fed hay, grain and browse pruned from a variety of non-toxic trees and shrubs around the Zoo. They also receive fruit and vegetable treats such as apples, carrots, sweet potatoes and romaine lettuce.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Zoo Atlanta Conservation Efforts:  label   p 
 p Zoo Atlanta is firmly committed to a future where elephants remain in the wild. We are proud to support the 96 Elephants campaign [http:  www.96elephants.org ] to stop the slaughter of elephants for ivory.  p 
 p Zoo Atlanta is also part of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums’ (AZA) Elephant Species Survival Plan® (SSP), which seeks to maintain a self-sustaining, genetically diverse population of elephants within accredited North American zoos.  p 
 p class="no-margin"  label Zoo Atlanta Research:  label   p 
 p Our research staff are involved in a variety of  a href="http:  zooatlanta.org project elephant " non-invasive behavioral studies  a  to discover even more about the fascinating lives of African elephants.  p 
 p Zoo Atlanta is a member of:  p 
