 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p Mali was the first elephant calf ever born at Melbourne Zoo. She was born 16 January 2010.  p 
 p Dokkoon with her two calves, Mali and Man Jai  p 
 p Meh Kepah  p 
 p Few visitors to the Zoo would skip a visit to see this fascinating group. Their home is the award-winning Trail of the Elephants, which allows the elephants considerable scope to roam and forage: it is estimated they travel as far (or further) than elephants living in natural non-extreme environments (6.21–15.00km day vs. 5–10 km day).  p 
 p The Asian Elephant was once widespread throughout Asia. However, loss of habitat and poaching has forced remaining populations into heavily forested, inaccessible regions in south and South-East Asia. Countries in which the Asian Elephant may be found include Sri Lanka, Laos, Thailand, Burma, China, Malaysia, India, Indonesia (on the island of Sumatra) and Cambodia. There may be fewer than 53,000 animals remaining throughout Asia and the wild population is decreasing.  p 
 p Five pregnancies have been achieved since Melbourne Zoo established the Cooperative Conservation Breeding Program upon the arrival of three young elephant cows from Thailand in November 2006. The aim of the breeding program is to create an insurance population of this endangered species. Melbourne Zoo’s first-ever calf Mali is also the first female elephant born in Australia and the first elephant born in Australia to be conceived through artificial insemination.  p 
 p In the wild the Asian Elephant eats leaves, flowers, fruits, shrubs, grasses and roots. An adult elephant may eat up to 170kg of food, drink 90L of water, and produce up to 75kg of faeces per day. Herds of Asian Elephants occasionally feed on fruit trees growing on plantations bordering the forests, causing thousands of dollars of damage. To prevent this, guards patrol the boundaries of farms and use spotlights and fire crackers to scare the elephants away.  p 
 p At Melbourne Zoo the herd’s diet is mostly hay and lucerne, along with treats of carrots, apples, bread, sugar cane, bamboo, and leafy branches. The Zoo’s elephants are contributors to the compost production at Melbourne Zoo, which is sold in garden centres as  a href=" sustainability zoo-gro" Zoo Gro  a .  p 
 p Trail of the Elephants is proudly supported by gold partner  strong  a href="http:  www.anz.com" ANZ  a   strong   p 
 p Born 16 January 2010  p 
 p The first offspring for her mother Dokkoon and father Bong Su. Mali means 'jasmine' in Thai.  p 
 p Mek Kapah arrived on the 11th May 1978 from Malaysia.  p 
 p Born 8 December 2013  p 
 p Man Jai, which means 'confident' in Thai. Mother Dokkoon’s second baby and father Bong Su.  p 
 p Kulab arrived on the 5th November 2006 from Thailand.   p 
 p Kulab is the mother of male calf Ongard who is now part of an breeding program in America.  p 
 p Num-Oi arrived on the 5th November 2006 from Thailand.  p 
 p Num-Oi’s first calf Sanook died in a tragic accident, playing with a hanging tire in the barn one evening. Num-Oi’s second pregnancy, also the result of AI, was unsuccessful with calf Willow born with an untreatable congenital condition.  p 
 p Dokkoon arrived on the 5th November 2006 from Thailand.  p 
 p Dokkoon was the first of the three to give birth, to female calf Mali and then later to Man Jai.  p 
 p Melbourne Zoo’s elephant herd have something extra special to trumpet about this Sunday because it’s World Elephant Day!  p 
 p Ongard, the first male Asian Elephant calf ever born at Melbourne Zoo has landed safely at Zoo Miami and is preparing to play a major role in the international breeding program for his endangered species.  p 
 p You can help us label palm oil once and for all. Let Ministers know that you want the choice.  p 
 p Asian Elephants in the wild have been poached for their tusks and populations have dwindled. Melbourne Zoo has been successful in breeding four calves in recent years. You can help us fight extinction by adopting the Asian Elephant.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
