 p style="text-align: center;" Elephants are known to be the largest land mammals and live in large groups, which are led by the most experienced female in the group. Females are usually able to give birth at the age of 10 years to a single calf after a 22 month pregnancy period. They need roughly 200kg of food daily, including grass, bamboo, nuts, and fruit. They drink about 150 litres of water per day.  p 
 p Elephants have a very strong sense of smell. Sadly, Sumatra's deforestation rate is among the highest in Southeast Asia and has taken away the primary food source for the Sumatran elephants. Thus, started the conflict between wild elephants and humans in Sumatra.  p 
 p Sumatran elephants are social animals! They are not only clever, they are also the most empathetic creatures of the world. The female Sumatran Elephant is known to sacrifice her own life for protecting her offspring when necessary.  p 
 p Sumatran elephants are strictly herbivorous and consume approximately 150 kg of plant matter a day. Their diet typically involves 112 different species of plants. An adult Sumatran elephant drinks 80 to 200 liters of water daily.  p 
 p Taman Safari Indonesia, supported by the Government, has made efforts to overcome the human-elephant conflict and established the first Elephant Education and Conservation Center in Way Kambas, the second Elephant Education and Conservation Center in Riau and the third one in Aceh.  p 
 p A healthy adult elephant can drink up to 60 gallons of water each day – which is the same as about 275 big bottles of coke.  p 
 p We have hundreds of animals in our park from over 100 species, including some of the rarest and endangered.  p 
 p Not only are we one of the leading wildlife conservations in Indonesia, we are devoted to caring for the animals in our own safari. We ensure the highest standards of wellbeing is given to all our animals.  p 
 p Browse below to see the animals that we have given a loving home to.  p 
 p The world's largest land mammals gather in groups and are led by females! It requires them to drink 150 litres of water per day to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live [...]  p 
 p The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek: which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African [...]  p 
 p The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, [...]  p 
 p Tigers are as majestic as they appear. The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of [...]  p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali – Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show   Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Theme Park  p 
 p  strong Bali Safari &amp; Marine Park  strong   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Green Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com "  strong Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" Copyright © 2019. br All rights reserved.  p 
