 p Open Daily  span 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.  span   p 
 p OPEN DAILY  span 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.  span   p 
 p class="description" Bigger Spaces. Smiling Faces.  br 
It’s all starting now!  p 
 p class="description" Reid Park Zoo is committed to providing experiences that inspire adults and children to care for wild animals and wild places.  p 
 p class="description" Always check the daily schedule in the front plaza for Keeper Chats, training demonstrations, and activities for kids.  p 
 p class="description" Click here for a list of upcoming events at your Zoo  p 
 p class="description" Reid Park Zoo and Taste of the Wild Catering offer a unique experience for your child’s special day.  p 
 p class="description" Become a “Parent” to Your Favorite Zoo Animal.  p 
 p class="description" Share your passion for wildlife and conservation with others.  p 
 p class="description" Turn your passion into a career.   p 
 p class="description" Can't make it to the Zoo? No worries. With our Zoo to You Outreach programs, we will come to you!   p 
 p class="description" pre-school groups, scout groups, friends and family groups; we have a variety of programs for everyone! br 
  p 
 p class="description" Looking to take your K-12 students on a field trip to the Zoo? We offer a variety of free resources and discounts for teachers!  p 
 p class="description" A Family membership pays for itself in less than 2 visits with free, UNLIMITED day-time Zoo admission year round. Join Today!  br 
  p 
 p class="description" Reid Park Zoo offers a discounted membership rate to 501 (c) (3) non-profit agencies that are a resource for the Tucson community.  p 
 p class="description" Support from businesses and organizations help further Reid Park Zoo's commitment to saving wild animals and wild places.  p 
 p class="description" At Reid Park Zoo – conservation is a part of everything we do  p 
 p class="description" At Reid Park Zoo we are actively involved with conservation programs around the world.   p 
 p We're Lighting up the Zoo this Spring! Reid Park Zoo is partnering with the Confucius Institute at the University of Arizona, Tianyu Arts &amp; Culture…  p 
 p The African elephant herd at Reid Park Zoo is growing: Semba is pregnant! Female elephant Semba is 29-years-old, pregnant with her fourth calf, and due…  p 
 p Treat your kids to the greatest summer adventure in Tucson - NOW available for campers in grades 1-8! Reid Park Zoo offers action-packed summer day camps…  p 
 p Reid Park Zoo welcomes Oja, the Andean bear! Oja was born at the Zurich Zoo as a part of their bear breeding program. She is…  p 
 p Join Reid Park Zoo for Wine Gone Wild, sponsored by A Thru Z, and help support the animals at the Zoo! Sample a variety of wines…  p 
 p Where Learning Gets Wild!  You can explore the animal world at the Zoo with your “little critter” through activities based on Arizona’s Early Learning Standards…  p 
 p Celebrate your child's birthday at the Zoo  p 
 p Attend a class, join a camp, or bring a field trip to the Zoo  p 
 p Reid Park Zoo couldn’t be the wonderful Zoo it is without help from friends like you!  p 
 p Subscribe to the Reid Park Zoo newsletter and get zoo updates, animal news, special events and more.  p 
