 p id="breadcrumbs"  span  span  a href="https:  www.savetheelephants.org " Home  a  »  span  a href="https:  www.savetheelephants.org about-elephants-2-3-2 " About Elephants  a  »  span class="breadcrumb_last" Why Elephants Matter  span   span   span   span   p 
 p Elephants are among the most intelligent of the creatures with whom we share the planet, with complex consciousnesses that are capable of strong emotions. Across Africa they have inspired respect from the people that share the landscape with them, giving them a strong cultural significance. As icons of the continent elephants are tourism magnets, attracting funding that helps protect wilderness areas. They are also keystone species, playing an important role in maintaining the biodiversity of the ecosystems in which they live.  p 
 p During the dry season, elephants use their tusks to dig for water. This not only allows the elephants to survive in dry environments and when droughts strike, but also provides water for other animals that share harsh habitats.  p 
 p When forest elephants eat, they create gaps in the vegetation. These gaps allow new plants to grow and create pathways for other smaller animals to use. They are also one of the major ways in which trees disperse their seeds; some species rely entirely upon elephants for seed dispersal.  p 
 p On the savannahs, elephants feeding on tree sprouts and shrubs help to keep the plains open and able to support the plains game that inhabit these ecosystems.  p 
 p Wherever they live, elephants leave dung that is full of seeds from the many plants they eat. When this dung is deposited the seeds are sown and grow into new grasses, bushes and trees, boosting the health of the savannah ecosystem.  p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org about-elephants threats-to-elephants " Threats to Elephants  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org about-elephants storyspheres " Story Spheres  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org about-elephants statistics " Statistics  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.savetheelephants.org category publications " Publications  a   p 
 p  strong Over the last years our world-leading conservation efforts have been possible thanks to the dedication and generosity of loyal supporters. To join them you can donate in a number of ways:  strong   p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org project elephant-crisis-fund " Elephant Crisis Fund  a   p 
 p Elephants are fast disappearing from the wild. Without urgent, international action they could be gone within a generation. The Elephant Crisis Fund provides rapid, catalytic support for the most effective projects designed to stop the killing, thwart traffickers and end the demand for ivory. 100% of all donations reach the field.  p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org get-involved donate " Online Donation  a   p 
 p Save the Elephants is funded almost entirely by private donations. It is only through the generous support of donors that we are able to continue our important elephant conservation work. We rely entirely on funds, grants and donations from around the world, so thank you for helping us to secure a future for these fascinating creatures.  p 
 p  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org project elephant-scholarships " Education - Support a Child  a   p 
 p Our unique brand of conservation education encourages students to become ambassadors of their rich environment. We also give opportunities to friends around the world to help educate young minds and improve the infrastructure of their schools. Sponsor a child &amp; help build a future for wildlife.  p 
 p class="sf_required_fields_msg" id="requiredfieldsmsg"  sup  span class="required" *  span   sup  These fields are required.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.savetheelephants.org get-involved donate-2 " class="small-button smallblue" Click Here to Make a Donation to Save the Elephants  a   p 
 p Donate with confidence – we are a registered charity and you can view our  u  a href="https:  savetheelephants.org about-ste funding " annual reports here.  a   u   p 
