 p  WELCOME TO StopRhinoPoaching.com   p 
 p  Established in 2010 as a response to the escalating rhino crisis in South Africa, StopRhinoPoaching.com is actively involved in the fight against rhino poaching and has a national footprint for strategic funding of security initiatives and ranger support on the frontlines. We encourage collaborative projects with individuals and corporates, channeling their funding and support into tangible projects within selected key rhino areas and reserves.   p 
 p  To every person out there who has had the unforgettable experience of encountering a rhino. To each of you out there who has always longed to do so.  p 
 p To anyone who calls themselves a lover of nature, a supporter of conservation, a human being, let's stand together as a nation proud and DO SOMETHING.   p 
 p  South Africa's rhinos are in crisis, and we're doing everything we can to help by channeling public support to selected key reserves and rhino protection projects. You will have heard that there is no 'silver bullet' to end rhino poaching and that it's an incredibly complex battle. Never have truer words been spoken. While there are numerous organisations addressing various focus areas, we concentrate on the very basics - keeping rhinos alive and buying them time while diplomatic solutions are sought. We're committed for the long haul, and its going to take all of us to win this.   p 
 p  Since the start of the poaching epidemic in 2008 South Africa has lost over 7 000 rhinos - a figure that, despite so much effort, increases daily. Coupled with the increasing poaching figure comes the question - why after all this are we still losing more rhino than ever? Sadly, few people realise the challenges facing those on the frontlines. At this stage the poachers have the upper hand – they know when, they know how, and if need be they’ll just come back another day or hit a softer target.   p 
 p The multi-pronged, multi-disciplinary, multi-agency law enforcement approach required to finding lasting solutions to a critical problem like rhino poaching is so complex that even now - 10 years down the line - we have made some (but too little) progress. Corruption, apathy, inter-agency politics, lack of leadership, co-ordination, capacity, skills or resources are just some of the bigger challenges facing those dedicated environmental crime investigators who remain committed to disrupting and dismantling the poaching syndicates.   p 
 p Daily challenges include lack of information sharing, trust issues and a high case load compounded by ongoing and relentless poaching activities – often with very little evidence left at the crime scene, which can be days to months old and at the mercy of the environment.  p 
 p  Game reserves bear the full brunt of the poaching scourge, with rangers in targeted areas coming into contact with poachers on a daily or weekly basis. While rangers are governed by strict rules of engagement, poachers are armed and will not hesitate to shoot on sight. Contrary to popular belief, not all poachers are driven by poverty. Criminals involved in cash-in-transit heists, vehicle hijacking, ATM bombing, gun-runners, murder and other aggressive crimes have also become involved – significantly increasing the mortal threat to rangers and rhinos alike. Great strides have been made on the ground – ranger readiness, the incorporation of various technologies and the role out of security protection strategies have all contributed to an admirable increase in poacher arrest rates – but no significant progress has been made in toppling the masterminds; the poaching bosses. There is no shortage of new recruits and poachers are quickly replaced. Excellent co-ordination by poaching bosses and co-operative alliances between various poaching groups empower them to be more effective at poaching, enabled by deeply entrenched corruption at every level. 
			
			
			 p   p   p 
 p  Bearing this in mind, intelligence driven operations (knowing who, what, where, when and how) are the cornerstone elements to cracking the syndicates, which is why we’re putting as much available funding into supporting investigations while at the same time still focusing on supporting core requirements. Winning the hearts and minds of communities living around rhino reserves is paramount to intelligence gathering and many reserves are working closely with their communities in this regard.   p 
 p  Reflecting back over the last few years since StopRhinoPoaching.com’s launch in June July 2010, to where South Africa is today, noteworthy progress has been made (though we still lack an influential political champion). Mobilising a country is no easy task, let alone getting everyone to pull in the same direction, and the synergy that has been forming among various stakeholders and role-players is encouraging to see. The figures are soaring despite so much effort by so many good people. That said, too many rhinos still die because of ineffective systems (especially the SAPS), the lack of political will, empathy and sheer bloody negligence on behalf of certain landowners.   p 
 p  SRP.com will continue to channel funding towards specific projects, putting as much as we can into areas containing larger rhino populations that are managed by DEDICATED and RESPONSIBLE conservation minded rhino owners custodians. There are many groups doing their best in areas where they can make a difference. Some days are soul destroying, the sheer vastness and cruelty of what we are up against is overwhelming, but no matter how bad it gets we have to keep on trying. No matter what, all of you, please don't give up.   p 
 p To learn more about the current rhino poaching situation,  a target="_self" title="Rhino Poaching" href="http:  www.stoprhinopoaching.com pages.aspx?pagename=poachers" click here  a   p 
 p Filmed, edited and produced by  a href="https:  kaimara.co.za " target="_blank" Kaimara Studio  a , the video below captures the essence of who we are and who we support. Eternal thanks so Pieter Uys, who has masterfully woven our story together after 2 years of collecting footage, and to all who have shared this journey with us. To all our donors, this is all thanks to you!  p 
 p  A number of strategic focus areas have been identified over the years, which include everything from community awareness and support projects surrounding reserves to demand reduction campaigns in the user countries. Our focus is almost entirely security orientated; the rangers, APU's, security and managers - the thin green line that stands between the poachers and the rhinos.   p 
 p  Click on the Full Screen icon below to view our e-brochure and a full history of SRP's support since 2010. Thank you to all our donors for making this work possible.  p 
 p    p 
 p  We are delighted to announce the following new partnerships and look forward to making a difference for rhinos and rangers thanks to the support generated by these projects.  p 
 p  br 
															  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  br 
															  p 
 p style="text-align: center; " center  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  br 
																		  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center; " center  br 
															  p 
 p  As of end 2014, the International Rhino Foundation (IRF) has funded StopRhinoPoaching.com's operational expenses - Elise's salary, travel and phone costs. In a climate where there are many sensitivities surrounding donor funding and admin costs, the IRF's support has been a life-saver for StopRhinoPoaching.com to continue to make a difference on the ground. It is thanks to their support that 100% of your donations can go straight back into the field. Further to this support, the IRF has channeled a significant amount of funding to our core projects in South Africa, both in KZN and the Eastern Cape. On behalf of all of us, a very big thank you to the IRF, its donors and its Board for believing in us and the work we are doing. For 25 years the IRF has championed the survival of the world's rhino through conservation and research. Visit their site by clicking on their logo below.   p 
 p  Our website has been sponsored by The Dev Factory and The Design Factory since StopRhinoPoaching.com's inception in 2010. Our grateful appreciation to Gerhard, Nadia and Nico for always being there for us. Our website has played an integral part in our success, and we will always be indebted to you for your contribution to the rhino cause.   p 
 p © 2015  a href="#" Stop Rhino Poaching  a . All rights reserved.  p 
