 p Sumatran rhinos are in crisis. We are part of a groundbreaking strategic partnership to save the Sumatran rhino from extinction.  p 
 p Record levels of poaching and habitat loss threaten rhinos with extinction — as well as their surrounding communities.  p 
 p We're committed to bringing you high-quality merchandise made in countries where rhino horn is not consumed.  p 
 p Since 1989, the International Rhino Foundation has championed the survival of the world’s rhinos through conservation and research. We do what it takes to ensure that rhinos survive for future generations.  p 
 p Based in the U.S., we operate on-the-ground programs in all areas of the world where rhinos live in the wild. In five countries across two continents, we support viable populations of the five remaining rhino species and the communities that coexist with them.   p 
 p We have contributed more than $20 million to worldwide rhino conservation over the past decade. Through grants and field programs, we have funded rhino conservation efforts in 10 countries, focusing on scientific research, anti-poaching, habitat conservation, captive breeding, environmental education, and demand reduction.  p 
 p Founded in response to intense poaching of Zimbabwe’s black rhinos in the early ‘90s, IRF helped to virtually eliminate the threat and stabilize the population. To this day, we support conservation programs in Zimbabwe that have secured 90% of the country’s rhinos.  p 
 p We prioritize collaboration. Through a network of hundreds of conservation organizations, private foundations, corporations, government agencies and individuals all over the world, we reach common goals for rhinos together.  p 
 p In local communities, we work to ensure that people living close to rhinos — who often are struggling as a result of poverty and environmental degradation — will serve as active partners in wildlife protection and reap direct benefits from conservation efforts.  p 
 p We are building a united front to save rhinos by engaging and activating rhino lovers around the world. Our global team of rhino conservationists is calling for an end to rhino poaching and sharing the plight of the rhino with others.   p 
 p class="pub-date" Posted March 8, 2019  p 
 p From directors to advisors, veterinarians to volunteers- IRF works with amazing women all over the world.  a class="more" href="https:  intlrhinofoundation.wordpress.com 2019 03 08 international-womens-day-iwd2019 "  More &gt;  a   p 
 p class="pub-date" Posted March 3, 2019  p 
 p   a class="more" href="https:  intlrhinofoundation.wordpress.com 2019 03 03 world-wildlife-day-2 "  More &gt;  a   p 
 p class="pub-date" Posted February 28, 2019  p 
 p Conservation is collaborative. There is more work to do to save rhinos than one person or organization can ever accomplish in a lifetime. We know how to recover the species…  a class="more" href="https:  intlrhinofoundation.wordpress.com 2019 02 28 tried-and-true-methods-collaboration "  More &gt;  a   p 
 p In 1989, the International Black Rhino Foundation was launched in response to a poaching crisis that many experts thought could wipe out Zimbabwe’s rhinos. Together with other conservation organizations, we were able to nearly eliminate poaching and stabilize the black rhino population in Zimbabwe. In 1993, we expanded our efforts to conserve the world’s five rhino species, all of which continue to face severe threats. Now, with programs in Africa, Indonesia and India, we are committed to ensuring that all five rhino species survive for future generations.  p 
