 p For 50 million years, rhinos were the largest animals on land. They roamed the plains from what is now eastern Europe to China – surviving ice ages, prehistoric hyenas and giant crocodiles. But that was before they encountered that most dangerous of predators – man. They suffered their first significant period of decline as a result of indiscriminate Colonial-era hunting. Man-made habitat loss due to agriculture and urban development by the invading European nations further thinned their ranks.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Photo: Jo Oh – Wikimedia Commons  p 
 p The second major rhino population drop occurred in the 1990s, fueled by the demand created by the economic surge of Asian countries – particularly China and Vietnam. There, powdered rhino horn is believed to have miraculous medicinal qualities capable of curing cancer, heart disease and impotency. In truth, rhino horn is simply a formation of keratin, a protein found in human nails and animal claws, with a trace amounts of amino acids and minerals, phosphorus and calcium. Perversely, the more scarce and expensive this purported nostrum, the more status it confers upon the newly wealthy of Asia.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Map:  a href="http:  www.savetherhino.org" onclick="__gaTracker('send', 'event', 'outbound-article', 'http:  www.savetherhino.org', 'Save the Rhino');" target="_blank" Save the Rhino  a   p 
 p Illegal rhino horn trafficking continued to surge into the mid-2000s – spurred to a great extent by the fact that the penalties for illegal horn trading were relatively light. As the demand for powdered horn grew, its price soared to as much as $120,000 a pound on the black market. Not for the poachers themselves – but to the distributors and crime syndicates.  p 
 p African and Asian poachers are for the most part men of meager resources. Their recruiters – some from crime organizations, others from rebel armies – equip them with state-of-the-art tracking equipment and automatic weapons that make them a deadly threat to both rhinos and park rangers. After cornering a rhino, they immobilize it with a tranquilizer gun and then hack off its horn leaving it to slowly bleed to death.  p 
 p Despite heightened security measures in parks and sanctuaries, rhino poaching is now approaching an all-time high – particularly in South Africa where 90% of the slaughter occurs. On a single day in that country, as many as 13 rhinos can be found dead, their bodies intact, their heads mutilated and bloody.  p 
 p In a controversial move, a South African court recently overturned the 2008 national ban on rhino horn trading, virtually decriminalizing the domestic trade in rhino horn within the country’s borders. Not surprisingly, this campaign was backed by the country’s commercial rhino breeders who point to the fact that poaching in South Africa has skyrocketed since the implementation of the ban. Legalizing safe and humane horn removal from living animals, they maintain, could ultimately prevent rhino poaching for good – citing recent evidence indicating that when word of de-horning is circulated throughout the smuggling world, it does in fact push traffickers toward other, less competitive targets.  p 
 p Make no mistake. South African rhino ranchers advocate legalization of the horn trade because it will bring them millions of dollars in profits. One of the most active, John Hume, claims to be sitting on a $16 million cache of horn that remains, for now, worthless. Hume presents himself as a conservationist as well as a businessman. The key to rhino survival, a cause he passionately espouses, depends on a controlled market. Still, animal activists argue that any legal trade in rhino horn would inevitably lower the price, thereby inflating the demand for both legal and illegally poached horn. A South African ban, they say, won’t stop poaching in other African and Asian countries.  p 
 p class="wp-caption-text" Hume and his team-de-horning a rhino. Photo courtesy Reel Peak Films  p 
 p As the de-horning debate rages on, the demand for rhino horn continues to grow – driven by low-paid foot soldiers, international traffickers and gullible consumers happy to ascribe magical powers to what is essentially powdered hooves or fingernails.  p 
 p Rhino Return to Samburu  p 
 p Do You Know the Difference Between Black and White Rhinos?   p 
 p Countries Fail to Protect Endangered Species From Illegal Trade  p 
 p Rhino Under Threat - Video  p 
 p Score One for the Rhinos  p 
 p Scientists Warn Crashing Insect Population Puts 'Planet's Ecosystems and Survival of Mankind' at Risk  p 
 p Humanity 'Sleepwalking Towards the Edge of a Cliff': 60% of Earth's Wildlife Wiped Out Since 1970  p 
 p Urging Multi-Pronged Effort to Halt Climate Crisis, Scientists Say Protecting World's Forests as Vital as ...  p 
 p California Study: Four Widely Used Neonicotinoid Pesticides Harm Bees  p 
 p Scientists to Build Avian Tree of Life  p 
 p 'A World Without Clouds. Think About That a Minute': New Study Details Possibility of Devastating Climate ...  p 
 p Scientists Warn Crashing Insect Population Puts 'Planet's Ecosystems and Survival of Mankind' at Risk  p 
 p Humanity 'Sleepwalking Towards the Edge of a Cliff': 60% of Earth's Wildlife Wiped Out Since 1970  p 
 p 'Warning Bells Going Off' as NOAA Forecasts Entire Great Barrier Reef at Risk of Coral Bleaching and Death  p 
 p Urging Multi-Pronged Effort to Halt Climate Crisis, Scientists Say Protecting World's Forests as Vital as ...  p 
 p © 2010-2019 Ecology Communications Group, Inc. (ECG).  All rights reserved.
ecology.com is owned and published by ECG.  p 
 p The Ecology Global Network ®, Ecology Radio ®, Ecology Campus Network ®
and their related logos and tagline are trademarks of ECG.  All Rights
Reserved.  p 
