 p  span style="font-weight: 400" More than 500 live white rhinos and 20 live African elephants have been exported between 2010 and 2014 from range states to countries around the world. Swaziland   span  a href="http:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 03 160309-swaziland-zoos-african-elephants-transfer "  span style="font-weight: 400" recently exported elephants  span   a  span style="font-weight: 400"  to the United States, and Zimbabwe   span  a href="http:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 01 160101-zimbabwe-elephants-china-export-zoos-conservation-jane-goodall "  span style="font-weight: 400" sent elephants to China  span   a  span style="font-weight: 400" . White rhinos have been exported to China and elsewhere.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Now eight countries are proposing to tighten the rules governing these exports to ensure the best outcomes for the animals and their future in the wild. The issue of live elephant and rhino trade was debated by signatories to an international convention on Tuesday at the convention’s 17th Conference of the Parties in Johannesburg.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), countries that have populations of rhinos and elephants listed on Appendix II of the convention (meaning they can be traded as long as the exporting nation finds that sending them to another country won’t pose a detriment to the population) can export them to “appropriate and acceptable destinations” in other countries. This means that exports go through if a scientific authority from the importing country affirms that it can house and care for the animals.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" One   span  a href="https:  cites.org sites default files eng cop 17 WorkingDocs E-CoP17-40.pdf"  span style="font-weight: 400" proposal  span   a  span style="font-weight: 400" , submitted by the U.S., would beef up this definition of “appropriate and acceptable destinations” by requiring that the importing and exporting countries be satisfied that the trade would support “  span  i  span style="font-weight: 400" in situ  span   i  span style="font-weight: 400"  conservation,” meaning that the profits of the sale would be used to adv  span  span style="font-weight: 400" ance the conservation of wild elephants. It also would add a provision stating that any rhino horn or elephant ivory of the imported animals or their offspring won’t enter commercial trade and that the animals and their offspring won’t be hunted.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Another  a href="https:  cites.org sites default files eng cop 17 WorkingDocs E-CoP17-57-04.pdf" proposal  a , submitted by seven African countries, asked that parties restrict trade in live elephants on the basis that they do not fare well during capture, transport, and in captivity. It also asked the member nations to agree that “appropriate and acceptable” should mean countries that are “suitably equipped to house and care for” live elephants and that the sales clearly benefit   span  i  span style="font-weight: 400" in situ  span   i  span style="font-weight: 400"  conservation.  span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" The debate went more or less as expected.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Zimbabwe appeared to oppose the proposals. “Animal rights and welfare issues are better handled in another forum, not CITES,” said the Zimbabwe representative.   span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Swaziland also opposed the proposal, maintaining that it should be allowed to continue exporting their wildlife: “Good conservation produces surpluses, even of elephants….We strongly support sustainable uses of natural resources including elephants.”  span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" China, which has imported wildlife from Africa, also would like to keep the status quo. The Chinese delegation to CITES argued that there are conservation benefits of   span  i  span style="font-weight: 400" ex situ   span   i  span style="font-weight: 400" conservation, that is, keeping stocks of animals outside their natural habitats.    span   p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Uganda and Ethiopia expressed support for the proposals from their fellow African elephant range states.   span   p 
 p “Wild elephants belong in the wild, in their home range—not in captivity for entertainment,” the Ugandan delegate said.  p 
 p  span style="font-weight: 400" Ethiopia echoed that statement: “African elephants should remain in Africa.”  span   p 
 p Because the two proposals are so similar, the U.S. and Kenya, representing the seven African countries, agreed to work together to develop a joint proposal that they would present at a later time. The CoP runs until October 5.  p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-category"  label In  label   a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org category changing-planet " rel="category tag" Changing Planet  a   p 
 p class="blog-meta-item blog-meta-tags"  label Tags  label   a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag jani-actman " rel="tag" Jani Actman  a ,  a href="https:  blog.nationalgeographic.org tag voices-for-wildlife " rel="tag" Voices for Wildlife  a   p 
 p Researchers, conservationists, and others share stories, insights and ideas about Our Changing Planet, Wildlife &amp; Wild Spaces, and The Human Journey. More than 50,000 comments have been added to 10,000 posts. Explore the list alongside to dive deeper into some of the most popular categories of the National Geographic Society’s conversation platform Voices.  p 
 p  b Opinions are those of the blogger and or the blogger’s organization, and not necessarily those of the National Geographic Society.  b  Posters of blogs and comments are required to observe National Geographic’s  a href="https:  voices.nationalgeographic.org national-geographic-community-rules " community rules  a  and other  a href="http:  www.nationalgeographic.com community terms " terms of service  a .  p 
 p Questions?  Please contact us:  a href="mailto:blog@ngs.org" blog@ngs.org  a   p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" Bat biologist Priscilla Alpízar believes that conservation is not complete without education, especially when working with animals like bats—which humans often view in a negative light.  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" “There are only a handful of cheetahs left in Ethiopia, and probably no more than 300 in the Horn of Africa,” said Sarah Durant, a senior fellow at @OfficialZSL. https:  t.co h5w1qh88ra #IntlCheetahDay  p 
 p class="ctf-tweet-text" style="" TODAY ONLY: Don't miss this opportunity to have your gift amount matched 2x! Until midnight tonight, all gifts will go twice as far to support our work to protect lions, elephants and other threatened species around the planet. #GivingTuesday br  https:  t.co rIi39FqirJ  p 
