 p class="btn" style="background: url( Images Uploaded Buttons btn-giraffe.jpg) no-repeat;"  a href=" 153 Buy-tickets.aspx"  strong Buy Tickets Online  strong  br   span Get your day ticket or annual pass here  span   a   p 
 p class="btn" style="background: url( Images Uploaded Buttons btn-cams.jpg) no-repeat;"  a href=" 17 Webcams.aspx"  strong Animal Cams  strong  br   span Watch penguins &amp; elephants live!  span   a   p 
 p class="btn" style="background: url( Images Uploaded Buttons btn-sealion.jpg) no-repeat;"  a href=" 67 Adopt-an-Animal.aspx"  strong Adopt an Animal  strong  br   span The ideal gift for someone special.  span   a   p 
 p   img style="float: right;" src=" Images Uploaded Banners Save_the_Rhino_logo.jpg" alt="" width="114" height="114"   p 
 p  strong  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Lowveld Rhino Trust   span   strong  em    em  strong    strong   p 
 p In 2009 Dublin Zoo began supporting the Lowveld Rhino Trust in Zimbabwe via the organisation, “Save the Rhino”. The Lowveld conservancies are home to approximately 50% of Zimbabwe’s white rhinos and 80% of the country’s black rhinos. However, due to increasing political, social and economic problems in Zimbabwe, poaching has increased greatly. The Lowveld Rhino Trust is involved with translocating rhinos to safer areas, treating wounded rhinos and helping authorities apprehend poachers. In addition to this work they also monitor rhino populations and develop community outreach programmes.  p 
 p The Lowveld Rhino Trust was established by Zimbabwean-born Raoul du Toit and in 2011 Raoul was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in recognition of his conservation work for African rhinos. The Goldman Environmental Prize is the world’s largest prize for grassroots environmentalists.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong  span style="text-decoration: underline;" 2016 Update  span   strong   p 
 p September 24-25 was ‘The Rhino Weekend’ and the Zoo held an awareness and fund-raising event for visitors. Educators, keepers and volunteers all worked together to make the weekend a success. Keepers Ken Mackey and Eric McClure pedalled push bikes for a hundred kilometres and raised more than €2,000 for rhinoceros conservation in Zimbabwe. The same month, Natasha Anderson, rhino monitoring coordinator at the Lowveld Rhino Trust in Zimbabwe, gave a talk to the Zoo team on the work of the Trust, which Dublin Zoo has been supporting since 2009. Dublin Zoo was mentioned as a major contributor in the Save the Rhino magazine of autumn 2016.  p 
 p    p 
 p style="text-align: center;"    p 
