 p China on Tuesday defended its controversial decision to ease a 25-year ban on trading tiger bones and rhinoceros horns after conservationists warned that the government had effectively signed a "death warrant" for the endangered species.
                                  p 
 p The State Council, China's cabinet, unexpectedly announced on Monday that it would allow the sale of rhino and tiger products under "special circumstances".  p 
 p Those include scientific research, sales of cultural relics, and "medical research or in healing".  p 
 p The country's previous regulations on rhino horn and tiger bone products did not consider the "reasonable needs of reality", such as those from scientific research, education, and medical treatment, foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said Tuesday.  p 
 p China has also improved its "law enforcement mechanism" and plans to step up efforts to crack down on illegal wildlife trade, Lu said at a regular press briefing.  p 
 p China prohibited the trade of rhino horn and tiger bones in 1993 but a black market has flourished, with many products entering the country through Vietnam, according to an investigation conducted last year by the Elephant Action League conservation group.  p 
 p Wildlife campaigners fear that the new rules could fuel the illegal trade and further put the animals at risk of being poached.  p 
 p "With this announcement, the Chinese government has signed a death warrant for imperilled rhinos and tigers in the wild who already face myriad threats to their survival," Iris Ho, senior wildlife programme specialist at Humane Society International, said in a statement.  p 
 p But the State Council said the trade volume will be "strictly controlled", with any sale outside of authorised use to remain banned.  p 
 p The newly sanctioned areas of trade will also be highly regulated.   p 
 p Only doctors at hospitals recognised by the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine will be allowed to use powdered forms of rhino horn and tiger bones.  p 
 p Tourism and cultural heritage authorities will also have to approve any rhino and tiger products that are used for "temporary cultural exchange".  p 
 p  b 'Total outrage'  b   p 
 p Despite a lack of scientific evidence, demand for rhino horn and tiger bone is partly driven by their supposed health benefits, from curing cancer to boosting virility.  p 
 p Today, synthetic alternatives exist for a number of animal-based remedies, such as bear bile, which is effective in treating liver cancer.  p 
 p "The use of wild animal parts such as rhinoceros horns and tiger bones is very limited in the traditional Chinese medicine," Lan Jirui, a traditional Chinese medicine doctor in Beijing, told AFP.   p 
 p "It was used in ancient times, but now we have alternative products," he added, emphasising the efforts that doctors of traditional Chinese medicine have made in wildlife protection.  p 
 p For rhino horn and tiger bone used for medical research or treatment, the council said only farmed rhinos and tigers can be used, excluding those raised in zoos.  p 
 p But activists were not reassured by the regulations.  p 
 p Farmed wildlife are "born into a miserable life of suffering, and then killed for use in medicinal products. It's a total outrage," said Kate Nustedt, a programme director at World Animal Protection, an animal welfare non-profit organisation.  p 
 p Up to 6,000 captive tigers—twice the global wild population—are estimated to be in held in about 200 farms across China.  p 
 p In 1960, there were an estimated 100,000 black rhino in Africa—today there are fewer than 28,000 rhinos of all species left in Africa and Asia, according to a 2016 UN World Wildlife Crime Report.  p 
 p Southern white rhinos are "near threatened" but others such as the black and Sumatran rhinos are critically endangered, according to WWF.  p 
 p China has made efforts to crack down on the sale of illegal wildlife products such as ivory in recent years.  p 
 p The country's ban on ivory sales went into effect in December 2017—an attempt to rein in what used to be the product's largest market in the world.  p 
 p A partial ban on ivory had already resulted in an 80 percent decline in ivory seizures entering China and a 65 percent drop in domestic prices for raw ivory, according to a report last year by state media Xinhua.
                                                                  p 
 p class="news-relevant" itemscope itemtype="http:  schema.org WebPage" 
                                         a href="#" id="inl-rel-href"  img class="toolsicon ic-rel" src="https:  cf3e497594.site.internapcdn.net tmpl v5 img 1x1.gif" width="14" height="16" alt=""   a 
                                         b Explore further:  b  
                                         a itemprop="relatedLink" href="https:  phys.org news 2018-10-china-limited-rhino-tiger-goods.html" China permits limited trade of rhino, tiger goods  a 
                                      p 
 p 
                                            © 2018 AFP
                                         br   p 
 p China on Monday announced it was authorising the trade of rhinoceros and tiger parts for scientific, medical and cultural purposes, a move wildlife conservationists fear could have "devastating consequences" globally.  p 
 p China's booming e-commerce websites have carried thousands of advertisements for illegal wildlife products including ivory, rhino horn and tiger bone, a wildlife trade monitoring network said on Tuesday.  p 
 p Releasing a report rating countries' efforts at stopping the trade in endangered species, WWF said elephant poaching was at crisis levels in central Africa while the survival of rhinos was under grave threat in South Africa.  p 
 p Vietnamese authorities have destroyed more than 2 tons of confiscated elephant ivory and rhino horns, sending a message ahead of an international conference that they want the wildlife trade stopped.  p 
 p China will ban all domestic ivory trade and processing by the end of 2017, state media reported Friday, a move hailed by activists as a "game changer" for African elephants.  p 
 p Britain on Friday outlined plans for a near-total ban on trade in antique ivory, bowing to pressure from campaigners who say that poachers are exploiting loopholes in the current regulations.  p 
 p Blue-blooded and armored with 10 spindly legs, horseshoe crabs have perhaps always seemed a bit out of place.  p 
 p As the Arctic warms faster than the rest of the globe, permafrost, land ice and sea ice are disappearing at unprecedented rates. And these changes not only affect the infrastructure, economies and cultures of the Arctic, ...  p 
 p Researchers at Delft University of Technology have created a quantum circuit to listen to the weakest radio signal allowed by quantum mechanics. This new quantum circuit opens the door to possible future applications in areas ...  p 
 p Located in the constellation of Hercules, about 230 million light-years away, NGC 6052 is a pair of colliding galaxies. They were first discovered in 1784 by William Herschel and were originally classified as a single irregular ...  p 
 p SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, completing a NASA demonstration mission that paves the way for the resumption of manned space flights from the US.  p 
 p Stars over eight times more massive than the sun end their lives in supernovae explosions. The composition of the star influences what happens during the explosion.  p 
 p Some species of Euglenids, a diversified family of aquatic unicellular organisms, can perform large-amplitude, elegantly coordinated body deformations. Although this behavior has been known for centuries, its function is ...  p 
 p 
                        Please  a href="https:  sciencex.com profile login " sign in  a  to add a comment.
                        Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
                         a href="https:  sciencex.com help account " Read more  a 
                  p 
 p  input type="email" required="" placeholder="email" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="email" name="email" 
                                  p 
 p  input type="password" required="" placeholder="password" data-required="1" maxlength="128" size="10" id="passwd" name="passwd" 
                                 input type="hidden" value="login" name="status" 
    
                                  p 
 p 
                                         span class="float-right" id="cmPrThr"   span 
                                         input type="submit" value="Sign in" name="loginsubmit" id="login-submit" class="com-button" 
                                  p 
 p class="centered" Enter your Science X account credentials  p 
 p Connect  p 
 p class="copyright" © Phys.org 2003 - 2019,  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  sciencex.com " Science X network  a   p 
