 p id="mainDesc"  span id="spanMainDescription" style="cursor:default;" title="Tstorms early. Morning clouds. Cool." Tstorms early. Morning clouds. Cool.  span   p 
 p class="left" News24 Correspondent   p 
 p class="text" iStock ( a href="www.istockphoto.com" target="_blank" iStock  a )  p 
 p class="bold" 
	         a id="lnkGalleries" href="https:  www.news24.com Multimedia" Multimedia  a     ·    a id="lnkUserGalleries" href="https:  www.news24.com Multimedia MyNews24" User Galleries  a    ·    a id="lnkNewsGalleries" href="https:  www.news24.com Multimedia Category-Images" News in Pictures  a 
	         span class="block red"  a class="group" href="https:  uploads.news24.com?iframe" Send us your pictures  a    ·   a class="group" href="https:  www.news24.com FeedBack.aspx?iframe" Send us your stories  a   span 
	      p 
 p Harare - Is it painful for a rhino to be dehorned?  p 
 p No, says a wildlife vet who's involved in an ambitious dehorning exercise in Zimbabwe.  br "It's like having your nails filed," says Lisa Marabini of the AWARE Trust.  p 
 p "As long as you don't cut into the horn bed it is not painful for the animal," she told News24 in an interview.  p 
 p Zimbabwe is in the process of dehorning all rhinos living in the country's national parks, she added.  p 
 p That doesn't necessarily mean all of Zimbabwe's estimated 700-800 black and white rhinos (since some live in private conservancies) but it does mean a significant number. br   br AWARE has just finished dehorning roughly half of them.  p 
 p Like South Africa and other countries in the region, Zimbabwe is ramping up its battle against rhino poachers who target these beautiful creatures for their horn, which is highly prized in Asian medicine.  p 
 p  strong Heavy-duty tool  strong    p 
 p Last year poachers killed 50 rhinos in Zimbabwe.  p 
 p Of course, says Marabini, you can't use a simple nail file to dehorn a rhino: in fact, the horn has to be cut off with a much more heavy-duty tool.  p 
 p "The keratin in rhino horn is much more densely packed than in finger nails so it has to be cut with a chainsaw," she said.  p 
 p The rhino's horn bed - where there are nerves and blood vessels just as there are in a human nail bed - is left well alone.  p 
 p The operation is done under anaesthetic, which obviously carries its own risk "but every precaution is taken to minimise the risk," she said.  p 
 p This level of care comes at a significant cost: Marabini puts it at between $800 and $1 200 US per rhino. The operation is most expensive when vets and conservationists are working in very bushy terrain.   p 
 p In those conditions, Marabini says they need "a fixed wing aircraft with a spotter to keep an eye on the rhino, as well as a helicopter to dart from."   p 
 p  strong Significant protective effect   strong   p 
 p Dehorning rhinos to put off poachers is not a new step in Zimbabwe: it has been happening since the early 1990s here.  p 
 p It was one of a cocktail of measures introduced as poaching took an enormous toll on what had been a thriving population of rhinos in Zimbabwe.   p 
 p Government estimates from the mid-1980s put the figure of black rhinos alone in Zimbabwe at as many as 3 000, although at least one expert has suggested the total was more likely around 2,000.   p 
 p The total number of black rhinos in Zimbabwe dipped to as low as 300, though it has climbed since then.  p 
 p While dehorning rhinos has had a significant protective effect on populations in parts of the region, other anti-poaching methods may be considered particularly when conservationists are trying to protect large numbers of rhinos living in large areas. br   br Drones are one such method.  p 
 p Zimbabwe has recently acquired drones to help fight elephant poaching in the west of the country, it was reported last month.   p 
 p 24.com encourages commentary  a href="https:  uploads.news24.com #story" submitted via MyNews24  a . Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  p 
 p These genius math hacks make multiplication a whole lot easier to do.  p 
 p First it was selfies, now it's smiling.   p 
 p The Bachelor SA drama!  p 
 p Can you drink black coffee while fasting or not?  p 
 p It just set a record!  p 
 p A foodie and homecook's dream playground.  p 
 p Here’s what you should know.  p 
 p class="report_status" Inbound  p 
 p class="report_status" Southbound  p 
 p Century City br E-Merge IT Recruitment br R250 000.00 - R500 000.00 Per Year  p 
 p Western Cape br Lindt &amp; Sprungli br   p 
 p Cape Town br e-Merge IT Recruitment br R600 000.00 Per Month Per Year  p 
 p  span class="block" Houses  span 
		                 span class="block bold" R 3 295 000  span   p 
 p  span class="block" Apartments   Flats  span 
		                 span class="block bold" R 2 850 000  span   p 
 p  span class="block" Houses  span 
		                 span class="block bold" R 3 295 000  span   p 
 p  strong class="block bold"  a href="https:  www.news24.com About press-code-20180917" target="_blank" Press Code  a   strong 
        We subscribe to the Press Code.
          p 
 p  strong class="block bold"  a href="https:  www.news24.com Newsletters" target="_top" E-mail Newsletters  a   strong 
        You choose what you want 
          p 
 p  strong class="block bold"  a href="https:  play.google.com store apps developer?id=News24&amp;hl=en" target="_top" News24 on Android  a   strong 
        Get the latest from News24 on your Android device.
          p 
 p  strong class="block bold"  a href="https:  www.news24.com SiteElements Services Terms-and-Conditions-20120413" target="_blank" Terms and Conditions  a   strong 
        24.com Terms and Conditions - Updated April 2012
          p 
 p Creating your profile will enable you to submit photos and stories to get published on News24.  p 
 p This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.  p 
 p 
                            News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.
                            If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a
                            location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to
                            take affect.  p 
 p 
                         strong Hi News addict,  strong 
                      p 
 p 
                        Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.
                      p 
 p 
                        Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.
                      p 
