 p Rhinos are herbivores, meaning they eat only plants. White rhinos, with their square-shaped lips, are ideally suited to graze on grass. Other rhinos prefer to eat the foliage of trees or bushes.  p 
 p  strong Current estimated populations:  strong   p 
 p Rhinos are found in parts of Africa and Asia. Their preferred habitat varies, from  a href="http:  www.defenders.org grasslands tropical-grasslands" savannas  a  to dense  a href="http:  www.defenders.org forest basic-facts" forests  a  in tropical and subtropical regions.   p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p Rhinos use their horns not only in battles for territory or females, but also to defend themselves from lions, tigers and hyenas.  p 
 p Males and females frequently fight during courtship, sometimes leading to serious wounds inflicted by their horns. After mating, the pair go their separate ways. A calf is born 14 to 18 months later. Although they nurse for a year, calves are able to begin eating vegetation one week after birth.  p 
 p Rhinos rank among the most endangered species on Earth. Valued for their horns, they face a dire threat from poaching, which is rapidly pushing them towards extinction. Their horns are used in traditional Chinese medicine, as well as carved into jewelry, dagger handles and other trinkets.  Rhino horns have become so valuable on the black market that thieves are stealing them from museums and game trophies shot long ago.  p 
 p Adding to the problem is the fact that for some species, the Sumatran rhino in particular, over-hunting has occurred for so long that the remaining population is broken into disconnected groups, unable to breed and to continue adding to the species genetic diversity.   p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p Rhino horns are made of keratin – the same substance that makes up human hair and fingernails.  p 
 p The biggest threat to rhinos is poaching – they are killed for their horns, which are sold in the illegal wildlife trade. One way to confront this threat is to decrease the demand for these products. The U.S. is the second largest consumer of illegal wildlife products in the world, so decreasing the demand here at home can have a great impact for wildlife on the ground, even half a world away. Defenders is working on Capitol Hill to fight legislative efforts to weaken the  a href="http:  www.defenders.org endangered-species-act endangered-species-act" Endangered Species Act  a  and the protections for rhinos that come with it. We also advocate for more funding for law enforcement to keep poached rhino horns from being smuggled into the U.S.   p 
 p In addition, we work on Capitol Hill to lobby for increased funding for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, which oversees the inspection of wildlife shipments at our borders. Because this agency is underfunded, the U.S. does not have dedicated personnel to inspect shipments at every port of entry. As a result, a huge number of shipments each year – containing all manner of illegal wildlife products – make their way into the U.S. Our goal is to ensure the agency has sufficient resources to carry out their responsibility to prevent illegal wildlife products from entering or leaving the U.S. Defenders also raises awareness about this issue in order to reduce consumer demand for these products here in the United States  p 
 p  strong Size:  strong  Rhinos range from 6 to 12 feet long, and 4 to 6.5 feet tall  br  strong Weight:  strong  The five species range in weight from 1,300 to 7,000 pounds   br  strong Lifespan:  strong  Rhinos live up to 35 years in the wild. br  strong Top Speed:  strong  30 miles per hour  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
