 p Here are some of the most interesting  em Arctic wolf facts   em such as Arctic wolf habitat, diet, reproduction, and its behavior in the wild.  p 
 p The arctic wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also known as white wolf or polar wolf, is a subspecies of the gray wolf that belongs to the family of Canidae. Arctic wolves inhabit all along the Alaska, northern areas of Greenland, and Canadian Arctic.  p 
 p These animals, gray wolf, also display large canines together with the white fur. The legs of the arctic wolf are shorter to keep them closer to the ground so that they can manage their body temperature.  p 
 p Arctic wolves are classified as Least Concern by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. Now let’s check out all these amazing facts about arctic wolves.  p 
 p  strong See also:  a title="Wolf Facts For Kids | Interesting Facts About Wolves For Kids" href="http:  animalstime.com wolf-facts-kids-wolf-habitat-diet " target="_blank" Wolf Facts For Kids  a   strong   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Feeding Ecology and Diet  strong   p 
 p  strong See also:  a href="http:  animalstime.com what-arctic-wolves-eat " target="_blank" What Do Arctic Wolves Eat in the Wild?  a   strong   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Distribution and Habitat  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Reproductive Biology  strong   p 
 p I kinda hate wolves all that blood when they eat. Thats nature but that naaaaaaaaaasty. Sure I like their fur and yah wateva but Dogs and Endangered Animals I love except dogs who bite you I don’t care if they bite my enemies. chicken =) !  p 
 p hey i love wolfs and my research project is about it  p 
 p same i am doing a project on the artic wolf  p 
 p I LOVE wolves. I am so glad they exist to keep the ecosystem in balance. Thank you animalstime for making a fact page for them!  p 
 p I Love wolves too! They’re so adorable! I love their cubs, too.  p 
 p Wolves are awesome! Thanks for making a page on arctic wolves. 🙂  p 
 p I love Artic wolves to!beacause of there fuzzy white fur  p 
 p I am doing a speech on them little more facts please  p 
 p Facts plz for now  p 
 p Artic wolf’s are some times huskies reason why is that huskies are part wolf  p 
 p BRAHH Huskies ant Wolfs u just saying that cause u think they look like a wolf  p 
 p I love arctic wolfs! they are my fervent wolf!  p 
 p Wolfs are soooooo cute wish dat dey weren’t endangered!!!!!  p 
 p I love Arctic wolfs they can be trained when pups to be as genteel as any dog you could ever have. They love their owner and are great protector of  children.  p 
 p I kinda hate wolves all that blood when they eat. Thats nature but that naaaaaaaaaasty. Sure I like their fur and yah wateva but Dogs and Endangered Animals I love except dogs who bite you I don’t care if they bite my enemies. chicken =) !  p 
 p  a href="http:  boxjellyfish.org " Box Jellyfish  a   p 
