 p Geographic Range:  p 
 p Class: Mammalia   br  Order: Carnivora   br  Family: Canidae   br  Genus: Canis   br  Species: lupus baileyi  p 
 p The smallest subspecies of wolf, Mexican gray wolves, or “Lobos” as they’re called in Spanish, have fur that is tan, silver and black. Mexican gray wolves are highly social, living in packs of three to eight with a complex social hierarchy. They are very vocal animals, using barks, howls, growls, whines and whimpers to communicate. Howls are used to assemble pack members and advertise territory. Wolves have individual, distinctive howls.  p 
 p   iframe src="http:  www.youtube.com embed QPduRSctn-c?rel=0" allowfullscreen="" width="500" height="281" frameborder="0"   iframe   p 
 p  strong Appearance:  strong  br Mexican gray wolves are the smallest subspecies of wolf. They have a smaller narrower skull than other wolves. Their fur ranges from tan to silver and black.  p 
 p  strong Size:  strong   br Length: 4 to 5.5 feet  br Height: 2.3 to 2.7 feet at the shoulder  br Weight: 70 to 90 pounds  p 
 p  strong Diet:  strong   br Mexican gray wolves prey on deer, wild pig, small birds, mammals and eggs.  p 
 p  strong Behavior:  strong   br Mexican gray wolves live in packs generally consisting of three to eight individuals. Their social hierarchy is led by an alpha male and female. They defend territories whose size is based on food availability. Territories are defined with scent marks placed on trees and rocks and by howls that alert nearby packs to the other pack's presence. Within the pack, howls are used to keep track of each other’s positions.  p 
 p  strong Reproduction:  strong   br Mexican gray wolves breed at the end of winter, usually from January to March, although individuals in more southern ranges may breed earlier. In most cases, only the alpha male and female mate. After a 63-day gestation period the mother gives birth to four to six pups. Pack members will carry food to the alpha female and her pups in the den. Pups reach sexual maturity in 2.5 years.  p 
 p  strong Habitat Range:  strong   br Mexican gray wolves are adapted to live in woodlands and mountainous areas. They once ranged in western Texas, southern New Mexico and Arizona, and northern and central Mexico. More recently, they've been released in conservation parks in New Mexico, Arizona and Mexico to help in their recovery.  p 
 p  strong Median Life Expectancy:  strong   br 11 years  p 
 p  strong Threats:  strong   br Habitat loss, illegal hunting and trapping are the primary threats to Mexican gray wolves. Habitat loss pushes them into closer proximity to livestock herders who then poison, trap or hunt them to protect their livestock. Today there are only a few parks that have Mexican gray wolves; even there, illegal hunting has reduced their dwindling populations.  p 
 p Zoodopts support the care and feeding of our animals, and with each purchase, we'll bring a little of the Zoo to you!  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  a href=" act ways-to-give zoodopt " title="Zoodopt" Zoodopt today!  a   p 
 p Visit our Kids' Corner to: br - a href=" kids-corner arts-crafts how-to-draw-animals draw-a-wolf" Draw  a  your own wolf br - a href=" kids-corner all-about-animals wolf-pack" Learn more   a about Stone Zoo's Wolf Pack  p 
 p Stone Zoo is one of about 50 facilities across the country and in Mexico participating in the Mexican Wolf Species Survival Plan (SSP). We've overseen births and collaborated closely with other facilities to transfer and receive wolves on their journey to being re-introduced to the wild. Read all about it on our  a href=" protect around-the-globe mexican-gray-wolf-reintroduction-program " title="Mexican Gray Wolf Reintroduction Program" Conservation section.   a   p 
 p At Stone Zoo:  p 
 p Follow Us:  p 
 p Zoo New England gratefully acknowledges the generous support of our sponsors:  p 
