 p class="partial_entry"  span class="fullText " This is a must if you are anywhere in the Cotswold area. The wolf enclosure is wonderful both for the animals and for the public to view without these shy animals being disturbed. br  br The park itself needs a day to take full advantage of all the facilities. Huge car park and picnic areas or there is plenty of food and snack opportunities on site. The animals are well cared for and there is the minimum of "bars" so all the animals and birds seem well happy and content. The gardens and grounds are wonderful and the railway goes all round the park at a very small charge. The walled garden is superb with birds, tropical house and penguins and should not be missed.  There is plenty for children of all ages including a play area. br  br Do not expect to see every animal species that you would expect from a large zoo but do not let this observation put you off visiting or you will miss seeing a gem in the Cotswolds. br  br This is a park suitable for all ages, families and couples and facilities are suitable for wheelchairs with access to every area. br  br This is a must for garden lovers and animal lovers alike. br  br Was this review helpful?  span  span class="taLnk ulBlueLinks moreBtn" onclick="widgetEvCall('handlers.clickExpand', event, this);" More  span   p 
 p class="partial_entry" A perfect place for kids who love animals and the adults who love beautiful gardens. We loved it and found it very clean and neat. Cleaner than any zoo I have been in the US!  p 
 p class="partial_entry" This is a wonderful attraction to visit. We have found no where else where you can get as close to the animals and wildlife as this! A particular highlight of the day was the lemur enclosure, in which the lemurs were free to run about as they pleased around your feet! The giraffe enclosure is also particularly impressive, with an elevated walk way where you can reach eye level with the giraffes and watch them feeding from large barrels of food. Overall a fantastic experience, enjoyable for all ages.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" We had a lovely afternoon visiting the wildlife park, would definitely recommend a visit. Loads to see and the gardens were beautiful too.  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Myself and my partner were staying about 20minutes away from this attraction but were unaware as had not been to the area before. We decided to take a drive out and play the 'brown sign' game, in which you head in a certain direction and stop if a tourist attraction looks appealing. After getting to Avebury and deciding to avoid with the £7 parking and no change, we headed back in a loop and came across the signs for this, and wish we had just gone straight there. Despite being two grown adults and no children with us, we really enjoyed it! We had coffee and cake which was excellent, and should have allowed more time to spend here. Despite it being school holidays and the car park looking full, it didn't feel that busy, and we were able to wander around at our own pace and not feel like we had to fight to get to see anything. The grounds are lovely and spacious, the restaurant bright and spacious and the toilets were clean. Good day overall!  p 
 p class="partial_entry" Had research the internet for something to do, having never been and appx 1hour travel time away thought we'd go n see.  Timed it suitably as not to far to walk - although nothing was really. Plenty of toilet facilities, tea n coffee kiosks couldn't fault.  You expect to pay at places for food but a lil steep for the restaurant but we had kids portions - just enough! as thought we'd try it out  - also had a picnic - but did fancy something hot.  It was edible nothing OTT but cant complain. Queue was just outside the door but it was lunchtime what else do you expect - 10 mins later and we wouldn't have queued.  As to the day itself - "we ran out of time"  we saw everything - close up to the animals - rhinos. giraffes, goats you name it (except elephants)  birds n spiders too many to mention.  My near 9yr old took the guide book and led us round- we all really enjoyed the day and will visit again - well cared for animals - plenty of open space - usual animal smells - well worth the £1 per person for the train. we used it virtually first to get our bearings.  Only downside is that I  personally wouldn't visit if it was forecast rain as there is quite a bit of walking, all on the level  but would get soaked  p 
 p class="dcbp" TripAdvisor uses cookies to improve your site experience.  a href=" CookiePolicy" Learn more  a  or change your  span class="dcblink" onclick="" settings  span . By continuing, you consent to our cookies.  p 
