 p 
  p 
 p The reintroduction of gray wolves in many states has become a hot-button topic. Since being listed under the Endangered Species Act in 1974, and then their reintroduction to Yellowstone National Park and central Idaho in 1995, the battle over the presence of the gray wolf in the West has been an ongoing debate. Justin Webb, Hunting Guide for Clark Fork Outfitters and Mission Advancement Director of the Foundation for Wildlife Management, sits down with us to share his life in the wilderness and his incredible experiences with wolves in Idaho. And although he has the utmost respect for these wolves, he explains why he believes managing these predators is so crucial to the ecosystem and the amazing wildlife living in it.  p 
 p  strong TOPICS DISCUSSED:  strong   p 
 p 6:00- Justin’s background of growing up in the wilderness. He tells a few stories of his childhood of living in a tent for a year and the incredible experiences he had in the wild.  p 
 p 16:04- How he got involved with predator management and why he is spreading the word of wolf management for the future of the wilderness and our wildlife.  p 
 p 19:14- The reintroduction of wolves in the West. Justin shares some interesting facts and misconceptions out there about wolves like habitat, mating, behavior, and travel patterns that has created an overabundance of wolves.  p 
 p 28:28- Negative impacts of wolf growth that hunters and non-hunters need to know.  p 
 p 42:27- Justin’s advice to states who are considering reintroducing wolves to the wild and some history behind why the wolf population was wiped out to begin with and why managing the species is so important today.  p 
 p 51:00- Effects wolves have on other predators.  p 
 p 01:01:44- The F4WM Program. Justin shares what the Foundation For Wildlife Management program and membership consists of and how it all involves getting involved with conservation.  p 
 p  strong RELATED ARTICLES &amp; WEBSITES:  strong   p 
 p  a href="http:  westernwildlife.org gray-wolf-outreach-project biology-behavior-4 " Wolf Ecology &amp; Behavior  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.nps.gov yell learn nature wolf-restoration.htm" Yellowstone National Park Wolf Restoration  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.livingwithwolves.org wolf-issues the-political-debate " Living With Wolves- The Political Debate  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.doi.gov ocl management-wolves" Management Of Wolves   a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.foundationforwildlifemanagement.org what-we-do" F4WM’s Mission  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  wildernessattitude.com wa-podcasts 2018 10 31 podcast-template-9s8td" Permalink  a   p 
 p class="stats" 
143 episodes available.
A new episode about every
5 days
averaging 63 mins duration
 span .  span   p 
 p What if radio played only the shows you care about, when you want? Player FM is scanning the web for high-quality podcast content right now. Try us out on any web browser — desktop, mobile, or tablet.  p 
 p    p 
 p class="action-text" 
Start listening to Wilderness Attitude Podcast on your phone right now with Player FM's free mobile app, the best podcasting experience on both iPhone and Android. Your subcriptions will sync with your account on this website too. Podcast smart and easy with the app that refuses to compromise.
  p 
 p Google Play reviews:  p 
