 p class="q_slide_text" style="text-shadow: none;"  span Our farm is located at 1371 W Veterans Hwy Jackson, NJ 08527, Call for Appointment  span   p 
 p class="p1" style="text-align: left;" Howling Woods Farm is an educational facility located in Jackson Township, NJ.  We are a 501(c)(3) Public Charity providing learning experiences to the public about wolves and wolfdogs.  You can often find us at events with our animals throughout the State of New Jersey.  p 
 p  strong We welcome you to visit, but you need to make an appointment by phone only  strong . strong     strong Fill out our form and we will call you.  Or call us directly at 732-534-5745.  Please be sure to provide your phone number, as we make appointments only by speaking with you directly.  strong No appointments will be made by email or through social media, if you come to our facility without an appointment you will be turned away.  strong   For weekend dates, we usually book 8 weeks in advance.  To see dates we are open, visit  strong  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org events " upcoming events.  a     strong   p 
 p Howling Woods Farms is a non-profit wolf educational center and we welcome your donations. They help us care for our animals and the daily maintenance of the facility. We are a 501(c)(3) public charity animal rescue and your help is greatly appreciated. Thank you from all of us at Howling Woods Farm.  p 
 p Takoda is a mix of gray wolf and Alaskan malamute. He was born April 15, 2004 and weighs about 95 lbs. He is gentle…. strong  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org takoda " Read More  a   strong   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Samson is a mix of wolf and Alaskan Malamute. He came to us at the age of two years, when he and his litter mate… strong  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org samson " Read More  a   strong   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" … a href="https:  howlingwoods.org raven "  strong Read More  strong   a   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Kotori’s name in Hopi means “Screech Owl Spirit.” He is indeed spirited, though I’m not sure it is a screech owl.  span … strong  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org kotori " Read More  a   strong   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Naiche’s name in Apache means “mischief maker”.  Although he has gotten better with age, Naiche still can be meddlesome…  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org naiche " Read More  a   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Chante’s name means ‘heart’ in the Sioux language.  He does have a big heart indeed, especially with   span  span class="s1" the volunteers   span  span class="s1" …  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org chante-2 " Read More  a   span   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Named after the constellation, Orion was born in Spring 2015 and is now an 110 lb. mischievous pup.    span  span class="s1" He enjoys the company of our visitors  span …. a href="https:  howlingwoods.org orion " Read More  a   p 
 p class="p1"  span class="s1" Sirius is named after the ‘dog star’ in the constellation  i Canis major  i , the brightness star in the northern hemisphere.   span  span class="s1" Sirius…   span  span class="s1"  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org sirius " Read More  a   span   p 
 p Howling Woods Farm rescues and places domestic bred wolfdog hybrids and northern breeds.  We welcome your adoption inquiries. Due to the specific requirements needed to provide homes for our animals, we ask you to completely fill out our adoption application before being  considered.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Something’s always going on at Howling Woods. Festivals, Fairs, and Educational Presentations with our amazing animals, check our  a href="https:  howlingwoods.org events-calendar " event schedule  a  for more information. If you can’t make it to us, talk to us about coming to you. We LOVE to travel.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Howling Woods Farm will bring our animals to you. We regularly provide educational presentations to schools, libraries, summer camps, senior centers, scout meetings and other venues. A presentation typically consists of a 45-minute slide audio  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Howling Woods has been featured in publications such as The Village Voice, Asbury Press, and The Bergen County Record. We have also been seen on The Today Show, News 4 New York, and been included in some short films such as “She Wolf”.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Howling Woods animal rescue places domestic bred Wolves, Wolfdog Hybrids, and northern breeds. We provide education to the public about wolves and wolfdogs. You can find us at public events, throughout the State of New Jersey.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Howling Woods Farm has collected well over 8,500 photos over the years. All of our animals who have been up for adoption and have been placed can be seen as well as events we have attended and of course the experience of the farm.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Howling Woods is a 501(c)(3) animal rescue charity that rescues and places domestic bred wolves, wolfdog hybrids, and northern breeds. Donations help care for, feed and house rescued animals. We appreciate your support,  donate today.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #ffffff;" INSTAGRAM  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #ffffff;" TWITTER  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #ffffff;" PINTEREST  span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="color: #ffffff;" FACEBOOK  span   p 
