 p Gray wolves have apparently reached the Oregon Coast, but their arrival hasn’t been entirely peaceful.  p 
 p State wildlife officials say wolves “probably” killed 22 sheep in Curry County during four attacks in late February and early March.   p 
 p For most of their recent history in Oregon, wolves have stayed east of Interstate 5. The vast majority are clustered in the northeastern corner of the state.   p 
 p But evidence of the animals near the coast began popping up in trail cameras and in footprints discovered just 5 miles from the ocean in the summer of 2018, officials said.  p 
 p That would mark the farthest west gray wolves have spread in the Lower 48 since being reintroduced in Idaho and at Yellowstone National Park in the 1990s.  p 
 p “Certainly we can say there has been a wolf in this area, but whether they’ll stay and actually become resident wolves is not clear,” Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife spokeswoman Michelle Dennehy said.  p 
 p The large-scale attack by wolves took place in the White Mountain area of Curry County, east of Port Orford.  p 
 p Between Feb. 23 and March 4, officials discovered 21 dead lambs and one dead ewe that apparently took place in four different attacks, according to a report of the incident.   p 
 p ODFW conducted an examination of the scene.  p 
 p “The pre-mortem trauma and attack locations on all three carcasses are consistent with a wolf attack but lack diagnostic evidence to clearly differentiate between wolf and domestic dog,” the report said. “The cause of death injury was categorized as ‘probable.’”  p 
 p Officials are currently working with the livestock owner to establish non-lethal deterrence measures. No action can be taken against the wolves at this moment, because they are protected under the federal Endangered Species Act.  p 
 p That could change, however, following a proposal by the Department of the Interior to delist wolves across the Lower 48.  p 
 p  strong style="margin-right:3px;" More:   strong Oregon wolves, including OR-7, could lose protections under Trump plan to remove endangered status  p 
 p “It’s not uncommon for a predator to kill multiple sheep in one night,” Dennehy said. “This type of incident isn’t isolated to just wolves.”  p 
 p Wolves attacking small-scale hobby farms has long been a concern of wildlife managers as the animals spread into western Oregon.   p 
 p "Western Oregon has higher human density and a lot more properties, including smaller operations like a backyard band of sheep," said Russ Morgan, the former wolf program coordinator for ODFW in 2015. "Because of that, there's an increased potential for conflict."   p 
 p Dennehy said a trail camera captured what appears to be a wolf in the Pistol River area of Curry County in August 2018.  p 
 p ODFW also investigated a possible wolf attack in Coos County, in the Langlois area, in October 2018.  p 
 p In that incident, “the pre-mortem trauma and attack locations on all three carcasses are consistent with a canid attack, but lack diagnostic evidence to clearly differentiate between wolf, coyote, and domestic dog,” the report said.  p 
 p The cause of death by a wolf was categorized as “possible unknown.”  p 
 p Wolf experts have long suspected that wolves could repopulate Oregon’s coastal mountains.  p 
 p In a special 2015 report, Oregon State University professor Bill Ripple told the Statesman Journal there was good habitat between Oregon’s inland valleys and the coast.  p 
 p “The Coast Range and Siskiyous get overlooked, but they do have quite good wolf habitat in my view,” Ripple said in 2015. “There are a lot of logging roads, but they're often not used enough by humans to be a deterrent to wolves.”  p 
 p In a 2006 study, Ripple and graduate student Tad Larson did a comprehensive study on wolf habitat in Oregon.  p 
 p Their study determined that Oregon could support an estimated 1,400 wolves statewide.  p 
 p The Cascade region could support about 600 wolves, while the north coastal, central coastal and Klamath-Siskyous regions could each support over 100 wolves. The northeast could support over 400. (Ripple rounded down the numbers in interviews with the Statesman Journal to emphasize they are estimates.)  p 
 p  em Zach Urness has been an outdoors reporter, photographer and videographer in Oregon for 11 years.   em To support his work, subscribe to the Statesman Journal for $0.99 per month.  p 
 p  em Urness is the author of “Best Hikes with Kids: Oregon” and “Hiking Southern Oregon.” He can be reached at zurness@StatesmanJournal.com or (503) 399-6801. Find him on Twitter at @ZachsORoutdoors.  em   p 
