 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;"  strong WOLF HABITAT  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center; white-space: pre-wrap;"  em See our October 2018   em  a href="https:  www.yellowstonewildlifesanctuary.org blog 2018 10 5 progress-on-the-wolf-habitat"  strong  em project status update  em   strong   a  em .  em   p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Unfortunately, our lone  a href=" gray-wolf"  strong gray wolf  strong   a  Apache passed away in November of 2016. Though this was a hard hit for staff and the community, we now have the opportunity to expand our wolf habitat to house a small pack of 3-5 individuals. The future “YWS Pack” will be a powerful addition to the sanctuary, our  a href=" education-programs"  strong education programs  strong   a , and our efforts to promote wildlife conservation. This is a big project with a big price tag, with fencing alone costing over $20,000. Every donation helps get us one step closer to giving non-releasable wolves a forever home.  Our project objectives highlight the far-reaching impacts you are making with your donation.  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Construction of a large wolf habitat for 3-5 gray wolves  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Provide engaging education opportunities for students that participate in our education programs from five surrounding counties  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Developing an influential role in advocating the conservation of a controversial species in the Northwest region  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Giving our children and future generations the rare chance to experience gray wolves up-close and personal  p 
 p  em To properly contain wolves, there must be buried fencing inside their habitat. Those fence posts that look rusty are repurposed drill stem from an oil rig. This is just another way we focus on conservation, even in habitat construction.  em   p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" We will use 9-gauge chain link fencing that meets Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) regulatory standards. We will also put in underwire and additional lockouts to separate individuals for medical or training purposes. The habitat will over quadruple in size, to approximately 24,000 square feet!  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" The second phase will include landscaping the new habitat. We plan to add native foliage to the hillside as well as rock features, another den, and wooden platforms. We would also like to put in a water feature such as a small stream.  p 
 p style="white-space: pre-wrap;" Adjacent to the habitat we plan on constructing a gravel or dirt nature path that takes guests alongside the wolf habitat to a viewing platform. This platform will not only give visitors a better chance to see our wolves but a great view of the entire sanctuary.  p 
 p Sign up with your email address to receive news and updates.  p 
 p We do not share our subscriber information with any third parties.  p 
