 p The Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment is taking steps to control the ever-growing wolf population in the province.  p 
 p On Dec. 15, wolf hunting opportunities will be offered in wildlife management zones (WMZ) 49 and 53.  p 
 p Zone 49 is in the Weekes and Hudson Bay area and Zone 53 is in the Big River and Shellbrook area.  p 
 p “That seems to be where most of our calls are coming from for cattle losses, in that zone alone, in one RM, there has been 20 claims for cattle losses due to two wolves,” said Environment Minister Herb Cox.  p 
 p Cox said the initiative was tried out last year in Zone 49 with great results.  p 
 p “Even if we don’t take a lot of wolves in those areas, just the fact that we’ve got people out there is going to cause the wolves to move back into their natural habitat,” he said.  p 
 p There will be a total of 200 licenses available at Ministry of Environment offices in Big River, Spiritwood, Nipawin, Hudson Bay and Greenwater Lake Provincial Park.  Each license will entitle the holder to harvest two wolves.  p 
 p Licenses will be available on a first-come, first-served basis and must be picked up in person.  One license will be available per person, but a second license may be purchased if the first one is filled and there are still licenses available.  Licenses are restricted to Saskatchewan residents only.  p 
 p As a condition of their permit, license holders will be provided with a reporting sheet and required to report hunting results to the Ministry of Environment.  p 
 p Cox said they have not received any complaints from animal rights groups.  p 
 p “Our thrust of this thing is pushing the wolves back into their natural habitat and away from farms and ranches, where they are taking down cattle,” he explained.  p 
 p 
nmaxwell@panow.com  p 
 p On Twitter: @nigelmaxwell  p 
 p 1316 Central Avenue br Prince Albert, SK br S6V 6P5  p 
 p  strong Phone:  strong  306-763-7421 br  strong Toll Free:  strong  1-800-667-9000 br  strong NEWSROOM:  strong  306-922-6397  p 
 p We strive to achieve the highest ethical standards in all that we do. Our newsroom abides by the RTNDA Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct and follows the Canadian Press Stylebook.  p 
 p paNOW IS A DIVISION OF  p 
