 p Hidden in dappled shade, two bright eyes are looking at you. You stare back. Then their owner ducks and turns, loping easily over fallen logs to settle into the sunshine. Our red wolves aren’t just beautiful – they’re part of an award-winning program that has saved this iconic species from extinction.  p 
 p  strong THE THREAT:  strong  By the 1970s, only 14 pure red wolves existed on the planet, due to ceaseless hunting. By the 1980s, those wolves were brought from the wild to a zoo-based breeding program to restore the population.  p 
 p  strong TAKE ACTION:  strong  Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium joined with other zoos and agencies to save the red wolf, breeding and reintroducing them in the wild. There are now about 50 wolves in the wild, and about 200 in the Species Survival Plan. They still need our protection if they are to survive.  p 
 p Zoological Aide Katie Schachtsick holds a long-handled back-scratcher and applies just the right amount of pressure as she rubs it across the black-and-white hide of endangered Malayan tapir Yuna. It’s clear Yuna enjoys the attention – and the back rub – leaning into the scratcher and then moving her stout legs down, getting into a …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org tapir-ultrasound " Continued  a   p 
 p Cross your paws. And think of tiger cubs! Our endangered female Sumatran tigers, 5-year-old Kali and 4-year-old Kirana, could be pregnant. Both were artificially inseminated Jan. 30 with sperm from 14-year-old Mohan. We won’t know for a few weeks if a pregnancy resulted, but if successful, tiger cubs would be born in May. But it …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org ai-for-tigers " Continued  a   p 
 p We’re all feeling the cold right about now in the Pacific Northwest – and the rest of the country too. But here at Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium, our animals have some pretty cool ways to deal with it. From fur coats to heated hammocks, here are five ways our animals beat the winter cold. …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org 5-animals-that-beat-the-cold " Continued  a   p 
