 p "Where wolves and humans connect in nature for educational purposes."  p 
 p Our unforgettable experience takes visitors on a walking journey into large natural habitats that are home to Gray, Arctic and British Columbian wolves; where they become part of the pack. Participants are inspired by this rare hands-on experience that empowers them to interact with the Seacrest Wolf Ambassadors as they learn important scientific facts about this amazing keystone species. Saturday Wolf Encounter Tours last approximately 3 1 2 to 4 hours. A break is taken along the way, and there are logs and benches to sit on. This includes the Small Animal Adventure where you can feed the raccoons, hug a skunk, play with foxes, and meet Pecos the Coyote. All tours are by reservation only and bookings are accepted during the week by calling the wolf preserve for Saturday tours, VIP tours, field trips, group tours, special events and RV and tent camping.  p 
 p class="scwp-green" "One of the rarest opportunities in the world where wolves and humans connect in nature.  p 
 p All Tours Are By Reservation Only  p 
 p Our Most Popular Weekend Attraction  p 
 p Great for Schools, Churches and Clubs.  p 
 p Avoid The Crowds With Exclusive Access  p 
 p Experience The Howls of The Night  p 
 p Learn How To Help Seacrest  p 
 p Please Read The Rules Before Visiting  p 
 p class="quotes" "Visiting Seacrest Wolf Preserve Changed My Life!" - T. Brown  p 
 p class="quotes" "I went on the VIP tour with my mom today and we had the most amazing time!" - K. Camplin  p 
 p class="quotes" "It was amazing. An experience of a lifetime." - C. Beck  p 
 p class="bspcr"  a href=" news " class="button primary" VIEW NEWS &amp; EVENTS  a   p 
 p Read the Wolfpack News, plus find out information about exciting upcoming events.  p 
 p We want you to enjoy the best experience possbile when visiting us. Please be sure to read our important visitor rules.  p 
 p © Seacrest Wolf Preserve, Inc. All Rights Reserved. |   a class="chvr" href="http:  www.johnwarrenllc.com "  i class="fi-paint-bucket"   i   website design by john warren, llc  a   p 
