 p  strong  span id="ref239559"   span Fox  strong ,  any of various members of the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal dog" class="md-crosslink autoxref" dog  a  family ( a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal canine" class="md-crosslink" Canidae  a ) resembling small to medium-sized bushy-tailed dogs with long fur, pointed ears, and narrow snouts. In a restricted sense, the name refers to the 10 or so  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science species-taxon" class="md-crosslink autoxref" species  a  classified as “true” foxes (genus  em Vulpes  em ), especially the red, or common, fox ( em V. vulpes  em ), which lives in both the  span id="ref239560"   span Old World and the  span id="ref239561"   span New World. Several other foxes belong to genera other than  em Vulpes  em , including the North American  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal gray-fox" class="md-crosslink" gray fox  a , five species of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal South-American-fox" class="md-crosslink" South American fox  a , the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Arctic-fox" class="md-crosslink" Arctic fox  a  (includes the blue fox), the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal bat-eared-fox" class="md-crosslink" bat-eared fox  a , and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal crab-eating-fox" class="md-crosslink" crab-eating fox  a .  p 
 p Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the fox family, as compared with wolves and coyotes, is the eyes. They are yellow with elliptical pupils. All other canids, including dogs, have round pupils.  strong Fox  strong es are monogamous and do not live in packs. They are among…  p 
 p Widely held as a symbol of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal animal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" animal  a  cunning, the red fox is the subject of considerable  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic folklore-academic-discipline" class="md-crosslink autoxref" folklore  a . The red fox has the largest natural distribution of any land  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal mammal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" mammal  a  except human beings. In the Old World it ranges over virtually all of Europe, temperate Asia, and northern Africa; in the New World it inhabits most of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place North-America" class="md-crosslink autoxref" North America  a . Introduced to Australia, it has established itself throughout much of the continent. The red fox has a coat of long guard hairs, soft, fine underfur that is typically a rich reddish brown, often a white-tipped  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science tail-zoology" class="md-crosslink autoxref" tail  a , and black ears and legs. Colour, however, is variable; in North America  span id="ref239563"   span black and  span id="ref239564"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal silver-fox" class="md-crosslink" silver  a  coats are found, with a variable amount of white or white-banded hair occurring in a black coat. A form called the  span id="ref239565"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal cross-fox" class="md-crosslink" cross  a , or brant, fox is yellowish brown with a black cross extending between the shoulders and down the back; it is found in both North America and the Old World. The  span id="ref239575"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Samson-fox" class="md-crosslink" Samson fox  a  is a mutant strain of red fox found in northwestern Europe. It lacks the long guard hairs, and the underfur is tightly curled.  p 
 p Red foxes are generally about 90–105 cm (36–42 inches) long (about 35–40 cm [14–16 inches] of this being tail), stand about 40 cm at the shoulder, and weigh about 5–7 kg (10–15 pounds). Their preferred habitats are mixed landscapes, but they live in  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary environments" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="environments" environments  a  ranging from Arctic tundra to arid desert. Red foxes adapt very well to human presence, thriving in areas with farmland and woods, and populations can be found in many large cities and suburbs. Mice, voles, and rabbits, as well as eggs, fruit, and birds, make up most of the diet, but foxes readily eat other available food such as carrion, grain (especially sunflower seeds), garbage, pet food left unattended overnight, and domestic poultry. On the prairies of North America, it is estimated that red foxes kill close to a million wild ducks each year. Their impact on domestic birds and some wild game birds has led to their numbers often being regulated near game farms and bird-production areas.  p 
 p The red fox is hunted for sport ( em see  em   a href="https:  www.britannica.com sports foxhunting" class="md-crosslink" foxhunting  a ) and for its pelt, which is a mainstay of the  span id="ref239566"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic fur-animal-skin" class="md-crosslink" fur  a  trade. Fox pelts, especially those of silver foxes, are commonly produced on  span id="ref239567"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic fur-farming" class="md-crosslink" fox farms  a , where the animals are raised until they are fully grown at approximately 10 months of age. In much of their range, red foxes are the primary carrier of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science rabies" class="md-crosslink" rabies  a . Several countries, especially the United Kingdom and France, have extensive culling and vaccination programs aimed at reducing the incidence of rabies in red foxes.  p 
 p Red foxes mate in winter. After a  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science gestation" class="md-crosslink autoxref" gestation  a  period of seven or eight weeks, the female (vixen) gives birth to 1–10 or more (5 is average) young, called cubs or pups. Birth takes place in a den, which is commonly a burrow abandoned by another animal. It is often enlarged by the parent foxes. The cubs remain in the den for about five weeks and are cared for by both parents throughout the summer. The young disperse in the fall once they are fully grown and independent.  p 
 p Listed below are the true foxes of the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science genus-taxon" class="md-crosslink autoxref" genus  a   em Vulpes  em .  p 
 p 
            We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
          p 
 p 
            Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
          p 
 p Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article.  p 
 p Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed.  p 
 p There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.  p 
 p Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  p 
