 p class="article-description" itemprop="description" These omnivorous hunters and scavengers use different colored furs during winter and summer in order to blend in with their changing environments.  p 
 p Around the size of a large domestic cat, the arctic fox is best known for
its distinctively white winter coat, which renders the animals practically invisible amidst
their snowy surroundings. During the warmer seasons, however, their fur turns
into a coat of various shades of browns and grays, allowing them to blend in with the surrounding rocky
tundra after the snow has melted. As a member of the Family  em Canidae  em , the arctic fox belongs in the same family as dogs and
wolves, though it is much smaller than its distant relatives. Arctic foxes vary in size depending upon their respective genders.
Male foxes can grow to reach 33 to 43 inches (83 to 110 centimeters) in length, and weights between 7 and 21
pounds (3.2 and 9.4 kilograms). Female foxes, meanwhile, range between 28 and 35 inches (71 and 85
centimeters) in length, and only weigh between 3 and 7 pounds (1.4 and 3.2 kilograms).  p 
 p Given its harsh living environment, the arctic fox both hunts and
scavenges for whatever it can find. Lemmings make up a large part of their diets, but Arctic foxes
will also eat birds and their eggs, baby ringed seals, and whatever carcasses
larger predators have left behind. As an omnivore, they have also been seen to
eat berries, seaweed, and other vegetation. An arctic fox, with the intention of
scavenging, may follow other nearby predators and wait for them to leave after a successful
hunt. Otherwise, they rely on their keen senses of hearing and smell to ambush
animals beneath the snow.   p 
 p The arctic fox is spread out across the arctic tundra. Their diaspora
spans from Alaska and Canada, all the way across the northern climes of  a href=" webimage countrys namerica gl.htm" target="_top" Greenland  a , Scandinavia, and
Russia. They have been seen as far north as the sea ice approaching the North Pole.
They typically live in burrows, and may hide in tunnels and makeshift shelters
during blizzards. Numbering at several hundred thousand globally, arctic foxes
are considered as a species of "Least Concern" under the most recent International Union for
the Conservation of Nature's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. Despite this, they do suffer from diseases
like sarcoptic mange, and from hunters both for their fur (especially for foxes
with rare gray-blue winter coats), and those pushing bird conservation efforts on some of the Aleutian Islands off the Alaskan coast.  p 
 p Due to how widespread and sporadic their food may be, Arctic foxes are
always on the move. They are active all year round, and do not hibernate as
some other arctic animals do. During the colder seasons, an arctic fox uses its
thick, bushy tail as a blanket to protect it from the cold and, like a cat, its tails
also helps provide balance when it runs and hunts. One thing that sets arctic
foxes apart from other animals is how it hunts. When it senses an animal
beneath the snow, it will use its ears to pinpoint its prey’s location and
pounce, breaking through layers of snow with its front paws to reach its next meal.  p 
 p Although they mostly lead solitary, nomadic lives, monogamous
mating pairs will come together during the warmer seasons in order for mating to take
place. Arctic foxes’ dens normally consist of three mature foxes. These include the
mating pair themselves and a non-breeding female from the previous year’s litter, which provides its parents with additional assistance.
A vixen’s pregnancy will last from 51 to 57 days, and the pair will remain together
throughout the season to rear their young. A litter
normally has an average of 11 pups, though they can range anywhere from 5 to 14 young in size.
The pups reach maturity at 9 to 10 months, so that by the time winter season comes the
family unit will have dispersed, and its members will have gone back to their solitary ways.  p 
 p class="wa_d_present" On WorldAtlas.com  p 
 p All maps, graphics, flags, photos and original descriptions © 2019 worldatlas.com  p 
