 p  strong Have you ever wondered why a Danish pig goes  em øf-øf  em , while an English pig goes  em oink oink  em ? Or how a Danish bird says  em pip-pip  em , while a French bird says  em cui-cui  em ?   strong   p 
 p All animals have their own unique sounds, and we know exactly what dogs and cats say, for example, and what a horse, a sheep, a rooster or a cow would say. In Danish, dogs say  em vov,   em and cats say  em mjav  em , horses say  em pruh,   em sheep say  em mæh  em , cocks go  em kykkeliky   em and cows go  em muh  em  – like the same animals do around the world. No disagreement there. Or is there?  p 
 p There is, because it turns out that the words differ from language to language, even though the sounds are obviously the same whether we’re talking about a Russian dog playing in the snow in Siberia saying  em gav  em  or an Italian dog eating pizza in Naples and saying  em bau  em . But how can it be that people who speak different languages, pronounce the animal sounds so differently?  p 
 p One reason is that the languages of the world don’t use the same sounds to make up their words. In Danish, the letters Y and Ø represent sounds that are not necessarily included in other languages. Speaking Turkish, French, German, Hungarian or German you don’t have trouble pronouncing these two Danish letters, but if Nepali, English or Arabic is your mother tongue, they will be harder to pronounce, because the sounds don’t exist in these languages. On the other hand, it is difficult for many Danes to pronounce the Z sound of languages like German, French, Arabic and Polish. When Danes say the words  em zone   em or  em zebra,  em  it really just sounds like  em sone   em and  em sebra  em . br 
This is the same reason why Danes find it hard to hear the difference between the two English words  em price   em and  em prize   em – the Z sound simply does not exist in Danish, and so what we hear is simply an S.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL.jpg"  img class=" wp-image-997 alignleft" src="https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL-293x300.jpg" alt="IA Sprog Animal sounds" width="310" height="317" srcset="https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL-293x300.jpg 293w, https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL-768x786.jpg 768w, https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL-1000x1024.jpg 1000w, https:  www.iasprog.dk en wp-content uploads sites 2 2015 10 MURMUR_ANNONCE_HANE_FINAL.jpg 1600w" sizes="(max-width: 310px) 100vw, 310px"   a In the same way, the animal sounds differ slightly from language to language.  p 
 p When humans try to imitate the sounds of animals, we have to use whatever sounds we have in our own languages already.  p 
 p For example, bees go  em bzzz   em in English and  em vzzz   em in Turkish, and the Z sound is simply a way to try to mimic the bee. But since we don’t have the Z sound in Danish, the sound becomes  em sum   em instead. And when a rooster crows  em kykkeliky   em with a Y in Danish, a rooster in Spanish-speaking countries goes  em kikiriki   em with an I sound.  p 
 p So animal sounds may often be similar in different languages, but are still different because our languages are so unlike. In other words, we adapt the animal sounds to our native language to make them easy for us to pronounce.  p 
 p The languages of the world do agree on some animal sounds. The cat, for example, says almost the same thing throughout the world:  em mjav  em  (Danish),  em mjau   em (Swedish and Russian),  em meo   em (Vietnamese),  em mjá   em (Icelandic),  em meow   em (English) and  em miao   em (Italian), even if a few cats do say something different. You would hear Korean cats go  em yaong   em or Japanese cats go  em nyan  em . We also quite agree about what small birds say throughout the world: It is a small, delicate sound and to describe it we use an I sound:  em pio-pio  em  (Spanish),  em pip-pip  em  (Danish and Swedish),  em tjiep  em  (Dutch),  em tsiou tsiou  em  (Greek) and  em bí-bí  em  (Icelandic). Mice are small animals too, prompting the use of the I sound in many languages too:  em squitt   em (Italian),  em jjik   em (Korean),  em cin   em (Hungarian) and  em zi   em (mandarin).  p 
 p Ducks and frogs, on the other hand, have a completely different, deeper sound, so many languages use an A sound when describing these animal sounds. Across various languages ducks go  em mac-mac (  em Romanian),  em bra-bra   em (Icelandic), em  rap-rap  em  (Danish),  em háp-háp  em  (Hungarian), while ducks in Estonia go  em prääks  em ! Frogs say  em kwaak   em (German),  em vrak   em (Turkish),  em kvæk   em (Danish) and  em cra-cra   em (Italian), but  em ribbit   em in English and  em op-op  em  in Thai!  p 
 p By the way, have you ever wondered what sound a turtle makes? A fish? A squirrel? Or a fox? A few years ago, the Norwegian group Ylvis gave us their version of what the fox really says. Listen to their surprising bid in the video below.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=jofNR_WkoCE" target="_blank" ”WHAT DOES THE FOX SAY?”  a   p 
 p    p 
 p Our FVU office is open: br 
Monday: 9:00 - 15:45 br 
Tuesday: 9:00 - 19:00 br 
Wednesday: 9:00 - 19:00 br 
Thursday: 9:00 - 15:45 br 
Friday: 9:00 - 12:00  p 
 p IA Sprog: +45 38 88 32 33 br 
Monday – Thursday:  br 
10:30- 13:00 br 
info@iasprog.dk br 
 br 
FVU: +45 41 26 42 82  br 
Monday - Friday: br 
9:00 - 15.00 br 
fvu@iasprog.dk  p 
