 p Map data provided by  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" IUCN  a .  p 
 p The Arctic fox is primarily a carnivore that lives inland, away from the coasts. They are dependent on the presence of smaller animals (most often lemmings) to survive.  Arctic foxes also hunt for sea birds, fish, and other marine life. Smaller rodent populations waver between times of abundance and scarcity, which leaves the Arctic fox vulnerable when these creatures are low in numbers.  p 
 p The Trump administration called for the removal of crucial Arctic protections in a new draft proposal of where oil and gas companies can purchase leases for offshore drilling. Take a look at how a handful of the Arctic’s abundant wildlife would be impacted by offshore drilling and a potential oil spill in the Arctic.  p 
 p The protection of the Arctic fox ensures the safety of a variety of other wildlife in the Arctic region.  p 
 p No reasonable doubt that the last individual has died  p 
 p Known only to survive in cultivation, in captivity or as a naturalised population  p 
 p Facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Likely to qualify for a threatened category in the near future  p 
 p Does not qualify for Critically Endangered, Endangered, Vulnerable, or Near Threatened  p 
 p The scarcity of prey is the most prevalent threat for the Arctic fox. Disease and genetic pollution of the species by foxes bred in captivity also threatens this species.  p 
 p Temperatures in the Arctic are rising at twice the rate of the rest of the world. Warming temperatures are linked to many changes in the Arctic, including reduced sea ice, melting permafrost and rising sea levels.  p 
 p The Arctic fox was impacted tremendously by the fur trade because of its extremely high quality pelt. It's still hunted now for its fur, particularly by native populations who live in close proximity to them. The fur trade has decreased dramatically and the Arctic fox is not as vulnerable to overexploitation as it once was.  p 
 p WWF works to make sure fragile ecosystems are supported and protected. We mitigate the effects of climate change to ensure the survival of the Arctic fox and other species.  p 
 p Show your love of the tiger with the WWF BankAmericard Cash Rewards Visa credit card. Bank of America will contribute $100 to WWF for each account opened and activated.  p 
 p Make a symbolic animal adoption to help save some of the world's most endangered animals from extinction and support WWF's conservation efforts.  p 
 p Get the latest conservation news with WWF email.
  p 
 p Already have a WWF account?
  p 
 p class="address" 
 strong World Wildlife Fund  strong  br 
1250 24th Street, N.W. br 
Washington, DC 20037
  p 
 p class="copyright" © 2019 World Wildlife Fund  p 
