 p 
                                Across the world there are a number of research
                                projects that study foxes, and these have a
                                variety of aims. Some are looking into methods
                                of resolving conflicts in urban and or rural
                                areas, others are investigating different
                                aspects of fox biology, behaviour, ecology and
                                physiology, whilst others are exploring the
                                potential role of foxes as vectors of disease.
                              p 
 p 
                                Here we have collated a list of the research
                                groups working on red fox projects. It is a
                                fascinating overview of the interest that foxes
                                generate among scientists and the general
                                public worldwide.
                              p 
 p 
                                If you work on foxes and you are not on this
                                list,  a href="mailto:thefoxwebsite-webmaster@bristol.ac.uk?body=****Please%20use%20this%20email%20to%20leave%20feedback%20on%20the%20website,%20but%20note%20that%20we%20cannot%20answer%20individual%20queries,%20due%20to%20the%20large%20volume%20of%20emails%20we%20receive.****" title="Please feel free to leave feedback 
                                    on the website, but we cannot answer 
                                    individual queries, due to the large volume 
                                of emails we receive" we want to hear from
                                you  a !
                              p 
 p 
                                    The fox has long been suspected of being a
                                    significant  strong predator of native
                                    wildlife  strong  in  a href="australia" Australia  a . Recent
                                    studies have implicated the fox as a major
                                    cause of population declines in a range of
                                    small to medium-sized native species. The
                                    extent of fox predation on lambs remains
                                    unclear, although it is increasingly
                                    perceived by producers as high. The  a href="http:  www.dpi.nsw.gov.au archive news-releases agriculture 2007 pest-animal-expertise" target="_blank" Vertebrate Pest Research
                                    Unit  a  has invested considerable
                                    resources over many years into studies on
                                    fox ecology and helped develop improved
                                    management strategies. Specific projects
                                    conducted over the last decade include:
                                  p 
 p 
                                    This project involved a large-scale
                                    population management experiment using
                                    properties and adjacent refugia as
                                    experimental units. Sites were selected for
                                    homogeneity of habitat, stocking rate,
                                    management practices and prey species. Fox
                                    densities were maintained using one of
                                    three strategies (two replicates of each);
                                    no control, reduction of fox densities at
                                    lambing time using the Rural Lands
                                    Protection Boards' recommended
                                    strategies for 1080 baiting, and intensive
                                    control throughout the year. The benefit of
                                    fox control was based on differences in
                                    lamb survival rates; the number of lambs
                                    that survived to marking were compared with
                                    the number of foetuses detected by
                                    ultrasound, and the costs associated with
                                    fox control were assessed. All forms of
                                    lamb mortality were monitored so that fox
                                    predation could be accurately
                                    differentiated from other causes. This
                                    involved intensive surveys of flocks at
                                    lambing using established techniques for
                                    determining causes of lamb loss (including
                                    other predators).
                                  p 
 p 
                                    This was a collaborative research project
                                    with CSIRO and the Pest Animal Control
                                    Cooperative Research Centre, the latter
                                    being set up to investigate the potential
                                    of using immunocontraception for rabbits,
                                    mice and foxes. The intention was to
                                    prevent pregnancy but not to impair normal
                                    hormonal function and the associated sexual
                                    behaviour of treated individuals; thus in
                                    theory the foxes would continue to occupy
                                    territories, maintain their social status,
                                    suppress the fecundity of subordinates but
                                    not breed. The objective of this project
                                    was to determine if the level of sterility
                                    that immunocontraception is likely to
                                    produce will hold fox densities at a
                                    greatly reduced level, such that the extent
                                    of their predation on native animals and
                                    livestock is more acceptable. To do this,
                                    the demographic responses of fox
                                    populations subjected to different
                                    treatments was compared. Of importance to
                                    the overall objectives was to determine
                                    whether critical differences occurred in
                                    the survival and territorial behaviour of
                                    sterile compared to fertile vixens.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The objective of this project was to
                                    investigate and describe the energetic
                                    requirements of foxes at critical times of
                                    their biological year. This involved the
                                    evaluation of field metabolic rates and
                                    post mortem studies to determine seasonal
                                    variations in fat deposition and body
                                    condition. By measuring seasonal energy
                                    budgets for foxes, and confirming critical
                                    times of the year when resources are
                                    limited, it should be possible to relate
                                    this to potential baiting strategies, and
                                    use energetic demands as an indicator of
                                    impact on prey biomass.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The use of 1080 for broad-scale fox control
                                    is the only viable option currently
                                    available for the protection of
                                    conservation values and agricultural
                                    production. Potential alternatives are
                                    immunocontraception, which is looking
                                    increasingly unlikely, and Cabergolin (an
                                    abortifacient) which might be useful in
                                    limited situations. Many people are calling
                                    for 1080 to be phased out as a matter of
                                    ugency. It is therefore essential to ensure
                                    that 1080 fox baits are being used to
                                    maximum effect and with minimal undesirable
                                    environmental consequences. The potential
                                    for improving bait uptake or reducing the
                                    number of baits used during a fox poisoning
                                    program needs to be investigated, not only
                                    in terms of safety and efficacy, but also
                                    for cost effectiveness. It may be possible
                                    to increase the distance between baits,
                                    pulse bait or put out fewer baits more
                                    often without affecting any reduction in
                                    fox numbers. Distance restrictions also
                                    need to be reviewed. Continued work in
                                    these areas is required to tighten baiting
                                    recommendations and improve the cost
                                    efficiency and environmental soundness of
                                    fox baiting programs.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) occurs
                                    when an animal associates the taste of a
                                    particular food with illness, and avoids
                                    consuming that food in subsequent
                                    encounters. As a non-lethal method of
                                    wildlife management, CTA has the potential
                                    to reduce predation on livestock and on
                                    endangered species without detrimental
                                    effects on predator populations. The method
                                    also has the potential to help reduce the
                                    problem of multiple bait take where a
                                    vaccine or fertility control agent is being
                                    delivered. Preliminary pen trials conducted
                                    on foxes by DEFRA in the UK have shown some
                                    promise for this method using a
                                    commercially available anthelmintic. As a
                                    collaborative effort with the UK, this
                                    research was extended to evaluate the
                                    method on free-living fox populations in
                                    Australia.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    In Australia, guard dogs and alpacas are
                                    used to protect sheep and goats from fox
                                    and wild dog predation. However, the
                                    evidence of their effectiveness is largely
                                    based on anecdotal accounts and there are
                                    no empirical data to verify these claims. A
                                    number of issues need to be explored e.g.
                                    what is the industry perception of such a
                                    management technique, what would be the
                                    level of uptake if guard animals were
                                    available, what level of effort would be
                                    acceptable to producers to initiate
                                    predator protection using guard animals,
                                    and what would be the costs to producers as
                                    opposed to the economic impact of
                                    predators? This scientific review project
                                    will serve as a platform for future
                                    research.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Regionally coordinated fox control programs
                                    in agricultural lands aim to reduce the
                                    number of lambs killed by foxes. These
                                    programs encourage landowners to bait at
                                    the same time as their neighbours (group
                                    bait) with the aim of reducing the density
                                    of foxes over a large area at times of the
                                    year when foxes are most susceptible. The
                                    effectiveness of these programs has been
                                    evaluated over a number of large areas in
                                    the state, using combinations of landholder
                                    perceptions and detailed measurements of
                                    production values and fox populations.
                                    Appropriate levels of fox control (baiting
                                    strategy) which will achieve production
                                    benefits have also been examined, which can
                                    in turn be used to derive control
                                    effort damage relationships. Shooting is
                                    increasingly being used as a means of
                                    reducing the agricultural impact of foxes.
                                    Additional studies have compared this
                                    technique with 1080 baiting for
                                    cost benefit purposes.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www.dpi.nsw.gov.au archive news-releases agriculture 2007 pest-animal-expertise" target="_blank" Vertebrate Pest Research
                                    Unit  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:glen.saunders@dpi.nsw.gov.au" target="_blank" Glen Saunders  a ,
                                    research leader br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong : Mani
                                    Berghout, Peter Fleming, Matt Gentle,
                                    Carolyn Greentree, Barry Kay, Lynette
                                    McLeod, Steve McLeod, Jim Thompson and Roy
                                    Winstanley
                                  p 
 p 
                                    A variety of  strong DNA-based
                                    technologies  strong  are used to study the
                                    ecology of foxes in  a href="australia" Australia  a . This
                                    research is important because foxes are a
                                    major agricultural and biodiversity pest,
                                    estimated to  strong cost A$228 million
                                    annually  strong . Examples of research
                                    include:
                                  p 
 p 
                                    In particular, the aim is to find out how
                                    movement varies among different landscapes
                                    and how this information can be used to
                                    improve methods of control. This project
                                    has been conducted in collaboration with
                                    around 1000 members of the public as  a href="http:  www.foxdna.animals.uwa.edu.au " target="_blank" The Fox DNA Project  a .
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Foxes are difficult to study by
                                    conventional means such as trapping, but
                                    measuring their abundance is critical to
                                    assessing the cost-benefit of control
                                    operations. Several systems have been
                                    developed to monitor fox abundance
                                    accurately from readily collected trace DNA
                                    samples, such as scats (faeces) and hairs.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    It is widely believed that foxes invaded
                                    the  a href="australia#tasmania" island of
                                    Tasmania  a  around 2001. If they become
                                    established, foxes would devastate the
                                    agricultural and tourism industries on the
                                    island. This project focuses on identifying
                                    the  strong likely mainland source of these
                                    foxes  strong , and whether they represent
                                    multiple independent entries or an
                                    established breeding population. These
                                    scenarios would dictate different
                                    approaches to management of the current or
                                    future invasions.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Websites  strong :  a href="http:  www.invasiveanimals.com " target="_blank" Invasive Animals CRC  a ;
                                     a href="http:  www.foxdna.animals.uwa.edu.au welcome oliver_berrys_homepage" target="_blank" foxDNA website  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:glen.saunders@dpi.nsw.gov.au" target="_blank" Glen Saunders  a ,
                                    research leader br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong :  a href="mailto:ofb@cyllene.uwa.edu.au" target="_blank" Oliver Berry  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The laboratory of social ecology, Faculty
                                    of Letters, Hokkaido University, has led
                                    several behavioural and ecological studies
                                    of wild red foxes.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    In  strong Shiretoko National
                                    Park  strong , red foxes often appeared on
                                    the road side and were provisioned by
                                    tourist. We studied the food habits and
                                    ranging behaviour of these foxes, and their
                                    food begging behaviour. Food habit studies
                                    of red foxes have also been conducted
                                    elsewhere in  a href="japan" Japan  a .
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The study described the outbreak of
                                    sarcoptic mange among red foxes in  a href="japan" Japan  a  and its impact
                                    on the fox population.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The  strong Laboratory of
                                    Parasitology  strong , Faculty of
                                    Veterinary Sciences, Hokkaido University,
                                    is one of the most active centres on the
                                    study of the fox tapeworm,  em Echinococcus
                                    multilocularis  em , in  a href="japan" Japan  a . The prevalence
                                    of the fox tapeworm in  a href="japan" Japan  a  has been
                                    investigated in natural, rural and urban
                                    areas. In the rural area, researchers
                                    conducted a de-worming trial of foxes by
                                    distributing anthelmintics to control the
                                    source of infection of human
                                     strong echinococcosis  strong .
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:oku@vetmed.hokudai.ac.jp" target="_blank" Professor Yuzaburo
                                    Oku  a , research leader of the fox tape
                                    warm project br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong : Dr  a href="mailto:htsuka@affrc.go.jp" target="_blank" Hideharu Tsukada  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Researchers at the Medical Zoology
                                    Division, Hokkaido Institute of Public
                                    Health, have studied the ecology of the red
                                    fox as an important vector of zoonoses,
                                    especially  strong alveolar
                                    hydatidosis  strong  (echinococcosis) in
                                    Hokkaido, Japan. Topics studied include:
                                    population dynamics of the red fox in
                                    Hokkaido, outbreaks of sarcoptic mange
                                    among foxes, dispersal behaviour in rural
                                    area and food habits of urban foxes, among
                                    others.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:ura@iph.pref.hokkaido.jp" target="_blank" Kohji Uraguchi  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The red fox ranges widely across
                                     strong Mongolia  strong  and represents
                                    one of the most common carnivores in the
                                    country. In recent years, however,
                                    over-harvesting and illegal poaching for
                                    fur have led to substantial declines in
                                    some areas and resulted in the species
                                    being listed as  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org " target="_blank" IUCN 'Near
                                    Threatened'  a  in the 2006  a href="http:  web.worldbank.org WBSITE EXTERNAL COUNTRIES EASTASIAPACIFICEXT MONGOLIAEXTN 0,,contentMDK:21176725~pagePK:141137~piPK:141127~theSitePK:327708,00.html" target="_blank" Mongolian Red List of
                                    Mammals  a . In 2004, Jed Murdoch began a
                                    project with Ts. Munkhzul of the
                                     strong Mongolian Academy of
                                    Sciences  strong  to investigate the
                                    biology of red foxes and other carnivores
                                    in steppe and semi-desert regions of
                                    Mongolia. The work focuses mainly on the
                                    behaviour and ecology of red foxes, as well
                                    as corsac foxes ( em Vulpes corsac  em ),
                                    and aims to improve the species'
                                    conservation status.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Websites  strong :  a href="http:  www.mongoliacarnivores.org " target="_blank" Mongolia Carnivores  a ;
                                     a href="http:  www.ikhnart.com" target="_blank" Ikh Nart Nature
                                    Reserve  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:james.murdoch@zoo.ox.ac.uk" target="_blank" James (Jed) D.
                                    Murdoch  a  br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong : Mongolian
                                    Academy of Sciences - Institute of Biology,
                                    National University of Mongolia, Mongolian
                                    Conservation Coalition, Denver Zoological
                                    Foundation
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www.dpiw.tas.gov.au fox" target="_blank" Foxes in Tasmania  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong : Matt Marrison
                                  p 
 p 
                                    As part of this project, researchers have
                                    radio-tracked  strong foxes, raccoon dogs,
                                    badgers  strong  and  strong domestic
                                    cats  strong  in order to study their
                                     strong home ranges, densities, movements,
                                    contacts and habitat use  strong  in
                                    south-east Finland since 2000. The aim was
                                    to collect data on the ecology of potential
                                     a href=" disease diseaserabies" rabies  a 
                                    vectors and to calculate rabies models for
                                    northern  a href="europe" Europe  a . If rabies
                                    comes to Finland, it would be from Russia.
                                    Therefore, the study area was located very
                                    near the Russian border. On the basis of
                                    these data, rabies models are produced in
                                    cooperation with Graham Smith,
                                     strong Central Science
                                    Laboratory  strong , York, UK. Researchers
                                    have also collected DNA-samples of foxes
                                    and raccoon dogs to calculate the genetic
                                    structure of their populations and the
                                    dispersal distances of young foxes and
                                    raccoon dogs. This is done in cooperation
                                    with Jouni Aspi,  strong Oulu
                                    University  strong , Finland.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Earlier projects have included a
                                     strong diet study  strong  of foxes and
                                    other medium-sized carnivores, and a study
                                    of the interactions between foxes and
                                     strong mountain hares  strong  in Finland,
                                    and  strong foxes, martens and
                                    grouse  strong . These studies were based
                                    on snow track-counts of all game animals
                                    each winter and grouse counts in summer all
                                    over the country. Finally, there has been a
                                    predator removal experiment in Finland. The
                                    fox was one of the predator species
                                    removed. The study aimed to elucidate the
                                    effect of predator removal on waterfowl,
                                    hare and grouse populations.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www.rktl.fi english " target="_blank" Game and Fisheries
                                    Research  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:kaarina.kauhala@rktl.fi" target="_blank" Kaarina Kauhala  a  br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong : Katja
                                    Holmala, Helsinki University, Jouni Aspi
                                    and Julia Schregel, Oulu University and
                                    Graham Smith, Central Science Laboratory
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Stephen Harris started to study the
                                     strong Bristol's fox
                                    population  strong  in 1977, and the study
                                    has been running continuously ever since.
                                    Initially the work concentrated on
                                    estimating the number of foxes and the
                                    basic demographic process of the entire
                                    Bristol population. Since 1990, however,
                                    the research group began to analyse
                                    detailed individual fox behaviour in the
                                    north-west part of the city, one of the
                                    areas with the highest fox densities.
                                  p 
 p 
                                    In spring 1994, for the first time, a fox
                                    was found to be infected with  a href=" disease diseasemange" sarcoptic
                                    mange  a . This animal had been born in
                                    Bristol the previous spring, dispersed out
                                    of the city during the winter, and returned
                                    to his natal range in May 1994, bringing
                                    the infection with him from the surrounding
                                    rural area. The fox population crashed
                                    following the arrival of mange, and in
                                    spring 1996 no collared animals were left
                                    alive on the study area. The population has
                                    slowly recovered but over a decade later
                                    fox numbers have still not yet reached
                                    pre-mange levels. In addition to continuing
                                    the long-term studies into fox numbers and
                                    patterns of  strong social
                                    organisation  strong , current projects
                                    include studies on  strong social
                                    behaviour, fox communication and scent
                                    marking  strong .
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Websites  strong :  a href="http:  www.bio.bris.ac.uk research mammal index.html" target="_blank" Mammal Research Group  a ;
                                     a href="http:  www.thefoxwebsite.org index" The
                                    fox website  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:s.harris@bristol.ac.uk" target="_blank" Stephen Harris  a ,  a href="mailto:g.iossa@bristol.ac.uk" target="_blank" Graziella Iossa  a ,  a href="mailto:carl.soulsbury@bristol.ac.uk" target="_blank" Carl Soulsbury  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                    The laboratory runs studies on the
                                    behavioural ecology of carnivores with
                                    particular reference to
                                     strong mustelids  strong  and
                                     strong canids  strong . The main research
                                    areas are  strong ecological-spatial
                                    distribution, trophic niche, habitat
                                    selection and estimating animal
                                    density  strong  using faecal DNA typing
                                    (e.g. the otter). Italian researchers have
                                    conducted studies on fox diet, local
                                    feeding specialisation and breeding den
                                    census. Currently, research is in progress
                                    on the overlap of trophic niche and habitat
                                    use in sympatric carnivores ( strong fox,
                                    badger, stone marten and pine
                                    marten  strong ).
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www-1.unipv.it ecoeto index.html" target="_blank" Laboratorio Eco
                                    Etologia  a  (in Italian) br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:prigioni@unipv.it" target="_blank" Claudio Prigioni  a ,
                                    Alessandro Balestrieri, Luigi Remonti
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Websites  strong :  a href="http:  www.biodivercity.ch " target="_blank" Biodivercity  a ;  a href="http:  www.swild.ch e english.html" target="_blank" Swild  a  (mainly in
                                    German) br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:fabio.bontadina@swild.ch" target="_blank" Fabio Bontadina  a ,  a href="mailto:daniel.hegglin@swild.ch" target="_blank" Daniel Hegglin  a ,  a href="mailto:sandra.gloor@swild.ch" target="_blank" Sandra Gloor  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                     a href="http:  www.bionet.nsc.ru indexEngl.html" target="_blank" The Institute of Cytology
                                    and Genetics  a  - Russian Academy of
                                    Sciences in collaboration with  a href="http:  bakerinstitute.vet.cornell.edu faculty view.php?id=175" target="_blank" The James A. Baker
                                    Institute for Animal Health, Cornell
                                    University  a , USA and  a href="http:  www.biology.utah.edu " target="_blank" Department of Biology,
                                    University of Utah  a , USA
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  cbsu.tc.cornell.edu ccgr behaviour Index.htm" target="_blank" International Cooperative
                                    Study on the Silver Fox  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:avk5@cornell.edu" target="_blank" Anna Kukekova  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www.mulder-natuurlijk.nl Home.htm" target="_blank" Jaap Mulder's
                                    website  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:muldernatuurlijk@gmail.com" target="_blank" Jaap Mulder  a 
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Ben Sacks and colleagues have been working
                                    on  strong demographic and population
                                    parameters of non-native red foxes  strong 
                                    in  strong California  strong  since 1996.
                                    Along with Keith Aubry (United States
                                    Forest Service), Mark Statham, Sam Wisely
                                    (KSU), and John Perrine (California State
                                    University, San Luis Obispo), the group
                                    currently works on the
                                     strong phylogeography of red fox  strong 
                                    and  strong the origins of several putative
                                    non-native populations  strong  in North
                                    America. Most current research involves
                                    both ecological and genetic aspects of a
                                    population in  strong California's
                                    Sacramento Valley  strong , previously
                                    thought to be non-native, but now known to
                                    be native and phylogenetically distinct
                                    from most other populations in  a href="northamerica" North America  a 
                                    (and Eurasia). The current work on this
                                    population also involves Heiko Wittmer (UC
                                    Davis) and Marcelle Moore (MS student,
                                    Sacramento State University) and is more
                                    field oriented.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong The group also launched a
                                    website  strong , specifically to invite
                                    reports from the public and these have been
                                    instrumental in helping to identify dens in
                                    the sparsely distributed  a href="http:  foxsurvey.ucdavis.edu " target="_blank" Sacramento Valley
                                    population  a .
                                  p 
 p 
                                    Ben Sacks and colleagues analysed the DNA
                                    of the Sacramento Valley foxes to see if
                                    they might be native. Foxes had been known
                                    to be present in the area as far back as
                                    1880 and no explanation existed for how
                                    they got there. In spring 2007 field work
                                    and intensive non-invasive sampling began
                                    to look more closely at the population
                                    structure, size and basic ecology. The
                                    group has also been attempting to study
                                     strong fox coat-colour genetics  strong 
                                    throughout  a href="northamerica" North America  a 
                                    with respect to natural selection, which
                                    required an understanding of population
                                    genetic structure of red foxes
                                    independently of coat-colour genes.
                                  p 
 p 
                                     strong Website  strong :  a href="http:  www.vgl.ucdavis.edu cdcg home" target="_blank" Canid Diversity and
                                    Conservation Group  a ; to report fox dens
                                    in Sacramento Valley:  a href="http:  foxsurvey.ucdavis.edu " target="_blank" Sacramento Valley Fox
                                    Survey  a  br 
                                     strong Contact  strong :  a href="mailto:bnsacks@ucdavis.edu" target="_blank" Ben Sacks  a  br 
                                     strong Collaborators  strong : Keith Aubry
                                    (United States Forest Service), Mark
                                    Statham, Sam Wisely (Kansas State
                                    University), John Perrine (California State
                                    University, San Luis Obispo), Heiko Wittmer
                                    (UC Davis), Marcelle Moore and Gina Tarbill
                                    (Sacramento State University)
                                  p 
