 p Hunting was banned in Scotland in 2002 and England and Wales in 2004. However, these bans have not been properly enforced, the attempts to eliminate or weaken them continue, and hunting is still legal in Northern Ireland.  p 
 p Click on the menu above to read information about our anti-hunting campaigns.  p 
 p  strong   strong Fox hunting is a ‘traditional sport’ in which hunters, usually on horseback, follow a pack of hunting dogs aiming to pick up the scent of a fox, chase it – and kill it. Fox hunting is illegal in England, Scotland and Wales, but evidence suggests that hunts are regularly breaking the law.  p 
 p Carry on reading for some more  strong fox hunting facts  strong .  p 
 p Fox hunting is illegal in England, Scotland and Wales. It is still legal in Northern Ireland.  p 
 p Fox hunting was banned by the  span class="post_link" Hunting Act 2004  span  in England and Wales, and the Protection of Wild Mammals (Scotland) Act 2002 in Scotland. But while these were both welcome and hard-fought pieces of legislation, overwhelming evidence suggests that both are being ignored or exploited by hunts on a regular basis.  p 
 p  br Hunts in England and Wales invented the activity of  a href=" trail-hunting" target="_self"  span class="post_link" ‘trail’ hunting  span   a  after the fox hunting ban came in. This claims to be a non-lethal sport where the hunt simply follows a pre-laid trail rather than searching for and chasing a fox. However, years of evidence shows that hunts are using trail hunting as a cover for illegal hunting by claiming to be following a trail but still carrying on and hunting foxes the way they did before the hunting ban.  p 
 p  br Hunts in England and Wales also use ‘exemptions’ in the Hunting Act. These were designed to allow certain types of ‘pest’ control or scientific research, but are being exploited by the hunts to give them an excuse to carry on hunting.  p 
 p In Scotland, an exemption in the law allows foxes to be killed by ‘flushing to guns’, where a pack of hounds is allowed to be used to chase a fox from cover where it can be shot. However, evidence from League investigators shows hunts claiming to be flushing to guns – but without having any guns present in the right place.  p 
 p If you are opposed to hunting, then you are in the majority.  a href="https:  www.ipsos.com ipsos-mori en-uk attitudes-hunting-2017" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" More than eight out of ten people are opposed to hunting  a . This includes more than eight out of ten people in rural areas – which shows that people who truly understand and experience what hunts do want to see it remain illegal.  p 
 p Hunting is not a town vs country issue, and it is not a ‘class’ issue. More than seven out of 10 Conservative voters want hunting to remain illegal. Hunting is an issue of animal cruelty, nothing else.  p 
 p Some argue that ‘hunting’ should continue because it’s a grand old British tradition. However, bear baiting and bull baiting were also traditions, and they were rightfully consigned to the history books. Traditions are measured in more than years. They have to reflect the values and attitudes of a society, and the vast majority of the British people oppose hunting with dogs.  p 
 p Fox hunting is not a credible form of pest control. Hunters claim that they are helping farmers by killing  span class="post_link" foxes  span , but this is a senseless argument that most people no longer believe. The League does not believe that there is any requirement for lethal fox control, but even if there was, then hunting is neither a humane nor effective way of doing it.  p 
 p Any suggestion that fox hunting is about ‘pest control’ can be dismissed very quickly by the fact that hunts have been caught capturing and raising foxes purely so they can then be hunted. In May 2015, a League investigation revealed  a href=" News kidnapped-for-cruelty" target="_self"  span class="post_link" 16 terrified fox cubs held captive in a barn  span   a  linked to a fox hunt in Yorkshire. We rescued them, took them to a vet, and sadly one died, but we released the others to safety. We are proud to have protected those foxes.  p 
 p While the scale of this fox ‘factory’ was shocking, it’s not an isolated case. In December 2015, League Investigators released a fox found locked in a building near to where the Belvoir Hunt was meeting. It is worth mentioning that a few months later, while monitoring the same hunt, our Investigators were brutally attacked, leaving one with a broken neck, which we believe was retaliation for us rescuing this fox.  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 11pt;"  em Watch the story of 16 fox cubs found captive in a barn close to a hunt kennel.  em   span   p 
 p Scientific evidence shows that the animals targeted in hunting suffer physical and mental stress when chased by a hunt - whether or not they are eventually killed.  p 
 p The  a onclick="_gaq.push(['_trackEvent','Download','The_Burns_Report_|_Hunting_with_Dogs.pdf',this.href]);" href=" Handlers Download.ashx?IDMF=eaaecc5d-2637-49f8-9d29-d29552538a14" Burns Report  a  produced in the year 2000 stated that “ em There is a lack of firm scientific evidence about the effect on the welfare of a fox of being closely pursued, caught and killed above ground by hounds. We are satisfied, nevertheless, that this experience seriously compromises the welfare of the fox.  em ” That is one of the reasons hunting with dogs for sport was banned in Britain over a decade ago.  p 
 p Foxes naturally escape predators by going underground, but hunts employ staff to block up these escape routes the morning before a hunt meet, forcing an unnaturally long chase. If someone is found guilty of  a href="https:  youtu.be zEUMh1ZuH8w" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="Blocking a badger sett video" blocking a badger sett  a , it is often done for this reason.  p 
 p If a fox does succeed in escaping underground, hunt followers send  span class="post_link" terriers  span  down the hole to trap the fox while they dig it out and then shoot it. Again, the Burns Report concluded that the inability to escape dogs underground causes the fox ‘extreme fear’ and is a ‘serious compromise of its welfare.’  p 
 p Autopsies reveal hunted foxes are not killed quickly, but endure numerous bites and tears to their flanks and hindquarters - causing enormous suffering before death. Foxes forced to face terriers underground can suffer injuries to the face, head and neck, as can the terriers.  p 
 p No other native British mammal divides opinion as deeply as the  a href=" foxes" target="_self"  span class="post_link" red fox  span   a . We believe the evidence does not support the criticism of this iconic British species. While foxes are of course predators – they kill other animals for food – their impact on livestock is exaggerated, and can be reduced with good farming practices.  p 
 p The threat of the ‘fox in the chicken coop’ can be remedied with a secure electric fence. While sheep farmers may curse foxes for the loss of their lambs, in reality studies have shown that poor farming practices, disease and bad weather are far more likely to lead to lamb deaths. A 2000 study in Scotland found that around just 1% of lamb losses could be directly attributed to foxes.  p 
 p On the other hand, by feeding on rabbits, a 2003 study estimated that rural foxes save British crop farmers around £7m per year.  p 
 p The animal being hunted is the ultimate victim of hunting with hounds, but there are others.  p 
 p Hunts regularly breed more puppies than are required for the hunting pack. Only the most promising are selected, often through the tradition of  a href=" cub-hunting" target="_self"  span class="post_link" ‘cub hunting’  span   a , during which the riders surround an area containing fox cubs and send the hounds in to learn how to kill them. We also have recent evidence of fox cubs being thrown to the hounds at a hunt kennels – to teach the dogs that they should kill these animals. Those dogs that fail to make the grade at any stage from birth onwards are killed.  p 
 p Once dogs have entered the pack they are culled if they fail to thrive as pack animals, if they become ill and unable to keep up with the pack, when they become too old to hunt with the pack, or when they become surplus to hunt requirements. The average hunt dog lives much less than the normal life expectancy for a dog of the breed.  p 
 p Fox hunting also relies on terriers to chase foxes underground. This so-called  a href=" terrier-work" target="_self"  span class="post_link" terrier-work  span   a  leads to painful injuries to both the dogs and the foxes.  p 
 p Hunts can cause havoc in the countryside when the pack of hounds picks up the scent of a fox. It is common for the hunting dogs to maraud through farms, disturb and kill livestock or pets, and often be seen crossing major roads and railway lines – all of which helps to prove that the pack is not following a pre-laid ‘trail’, which the hunts claim they are doing. Anyone suffering from hunt havoc can contact our  a href=" animal-crimewatch" target="_self"  span class="post_link" Animal Crimewatch  span   a  team.  p 
 p Hunting wild mammals with dogs for sport was banned in Scotland in 2002 and  span class="post_link" England and Wales in 2004  span . These are fantastic achievements! However, the battle to stamp out hunting in the UK is not yet won as these bans have not been properly enforced, the attempts to eliminate or weaken them continue, and hunting is still legal in Northern Ireland.  p 
 p There were two attempts by the Government to weaken the Hunting Act, most recently in July 2015. The League was at the forefront of the campaign to ensure that this attempt to bring back hunting by the back door did not succeed.  p 
 p In September 2016 we teamed up with respected explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes to educate MPs about the realities of hunting at the Conservative Party conference, leading Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom to drop mention of repeal from her speech.  p 
 p As a key player in the hard-fought battle to get hunting with dogs banned in the first place, the League Against Cruel Sports is working hard to ensure the law is properly enforced, and that any attempts to weaken or repeal the legislation are successfully exposed and blocked.  p 
 p We would like to see both the  a href=" hunting-act" target="_self"  span class="post_link" Hunting Act 2004  span   a  in England and Wales, and the  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Protection_of_Wild_Mammals_(Scotland)_Act_2002" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" Wild Mammals Protection (Scotland) Act 2002  a  strengthened, as currently hunts are regularly either simply ignoring the law under the cover of false alibies such as “trail hunting”, or abusing the use of ‘exemptions’ to allow them to carry on as normal. We are also working to see hunting with dogs banned in Northern Ireland, which remains the only jurisdiction in the UK where it is still legal.  p 
 p After 90 years of campaigning to both bring about and enforce a ban on hunting with hounds for sport, we remain ever vigilant in defence of the ban. We believe that campaigning for a strengthening of the laws to facilitate enforcement and creating a stronger deterrent effect, is the way forward.  p 
 p class="publishDatesWrapper" 
				 strong Published:  strong  
				 time id="time" datetime="2018-05-15" 15 sup th  sup  May, 2018  time 
			  p 
 p id="updatedDateWrapper" class="updatedDateWrapper" 
                 strong Updated:  strong 
                 time id="UpdateTime"  span 4 sup th  sup  June, 2018  span   time 
              p 
 p class="publishAuthorWrapper" 
				 strong Author:  strong 
				 span Luis Calvo-Ramos - Head of Digital &amp; Data  span 
			  p 
 p The trees on our animal sanctuaries provide food, shelter and protection for our wildlife. Find out how you can help us plant a tree and leave a legacy for future generations of wildlife.
  p 
 p "Putting the focus on animals, persecuted for sport, must be the priority for our charity. It’s why I became a trustee, and it’s what drives me now as Chair." Read the latest from our Chair of the Board of Trustees, Tim Holmes.  p 
 p A ban on shooting pheasants on public land in Wales comes into effect today thanks to a landmark decision by the largest Welsh Government body.  p 
 p Join volunteers from our new Bournemouth supporter group in The Square talking to shoppers, locals &amp; Tourists in Bournemouth City Centre.

  p 
 p Our courageous undercover investigators, together with the BBC, have exposed the cruel world of dogfighting.
  p 
 p Race horses are being fatally injured on a regular basis at race-courses all over the UK. The high numbers of injuries and fatalities of horses involved in horse racing has led many to call for the most gruelling races to be banned.  p 
 p Much of the debate over hunting with dogs focuses on foxes, yet hares and deer are also traditionally hunted in a similar way. In fact, before the Hunting Act was passed, one third of hunts in Britain targeted brown hares with packs of beagles, basset hounds and harriers.  p 
 p The hidden side of greyhound racing includes dogs kept for long periods in lonely kennels, painful injuries from racing and training, illness and neglect. Shockingly, thousands of surplus dogs die or disappear every year. The League believes dogs should not suffer or die for entertainment or for the profit of the dog racing industry.  p 
 p Bullfighting is perhaps the most well known spectator “sport” involving the killing of animals for entertainment. It has already been banned in most countries, but each year tens of thousands of bulls are maimed, tortured and killed for entertainment across the world.  p 
 p Mink are medium-sized river-dwelling animals, similar to otters and ferrets. Mink hunting is banned in England and Wales by the Hunting Act 2004, but we believe it still continues.  p 
 p Trophy hunting is the stalking and killing of wild animals with guns or bows and arrows with the purpose of obtaining part of the animal as a trophy. This multi-million pound international industry not only takes place in countries like Africa, but also in the UK.  p 
 p Thousand of badgers have being killed by the UK government in the ‘badger cull’ since 2013. Help us stop the unjustified and inhumane slaughter of a protected species.  p 
 p A snare is a thin wire noose set to trap animals which some people view as being a pest or threat, usually foxes and rabbits, but also other animals, including pets. In their desperate struggle to escape, animals may be strangled or suffer horrible and life-threatening injuries, or a lingering death.  p 
 p Deer hunting is less well known than fox hunting, but while currently only three registered hunts chase red deer with hounds in England, this practice inflicts some of the greatest cruelty wild animals suffer at the hands of people.  p 
 p As a team, we share the same passion – to stop animal cruelty in the name of sport. We are a tight knit team and we work hard within a fun, relaxed environment. We also offer something many employers don’t – an office full of friendly dogs!  p 
 p Hunting was banned in England and Wales in 2004, but the law has never been properly enforced, and attempts to weaken or repeal it continue. The hunting law in Scotland is weak, and hunting is still legal in Northern Ireland.  p 
 p Many people have been shocked to learn that illegal hunting is taking place on National Trust land.  p 
 p Foxes use 28 different vocal calls to communicate, and often form a pair that lasts for life. Foxes wag their tails to greet family members - just like dogs. More fox facts here!  p 
 p Hurting and killing animals for ‘sport’ is one of the principal causes of animal cruelty in the UK: tens of millions suffer and die each year for ‘leisure’ activities. We’re here to protect those animals.  p 
 p Bullfighting is perhaps the most well known spectator “sport” involving the killing of animals for entertainment. It has already been banned in most countries, but each year tens of thousands of bulls are maimed, tortured and killed for entertainment across the world.  p 
 p Help stop animal cruelty in the name of sport.
  p 
 p The Hunting Act 2004 is the law which bans chasing wild mammals with dogs in England and Wales – this basically means that fox hunting, deer hunting, hare hunting, hare coursing and mink hunting are all illegal, as they all are cruel sports based on dogs chasing wild mammals.  p 
 p The hidden side of greyhound racing includes dogs kept for long periods in lonely kennels, painful injuries from racing and training, illness and neglect. Shockingly, thousands of surplus dogs die or disappear every year. The League believes dogs should not suffer or die for entertainment or for the profit of the dog racing industry.  p 
 p Dog fighting as a ‘sport’ was banned in 1835, as even then it was considered barbaric. But this horrific form of dog abuse continues.
 br It's time to take a stand against dog fighting.  p 
 p Need that  a href="https:  twitter.com search?q=%23SundayMotivation" target="_blank" #SundayMotivation  a ?

Interested in actively campaigning in your region to help us bring an end to cruelty…  a href="https:  t.co sHuoi3qyqj" target="_blank" https:  t.co sHuoi3qyqj  a   p 
 p "88 horses have been killed on  a href="https:  twitter.com search?q=%23Cheltenham" target="_blank" #Cheltenham  a  Racecourse since 2008 – ten of these in 2018." 

We will be holding a st…  a href="https:  t.co 9L4IdcRV6j" target="_blank" https:  t.co 9L4IdcRV6j  a   p 
 p Join in with the conversation! 🗣

What would you like to see us post more about? What interests you the most? 

Hea…  a href="https:  t.co vvrP2CoR2v" target="_blank" https:  t.co vvrP2CoR2v  a   p 
 p Your browser does not support iframes.  p 
 p © 2019 League Against Cruel Sports. Registered charity in England and Wales (1095234) and Scotland (SC045533)  p 
 p class="caps" Defending persecuted animals  p 
