 p class="sr-only" Share  p 
 p class="" WA Country Hour  p 
 p 
 span By  span 
 a href=" news rural bridget-fitzgerald 5341750"  Bridget Fitzgerald  a 
  p 
 p class="sr-only" Share  p 
 p The red fox is native to Europe, Asia and North America and is a pest in Australia.  p 
 p James Lindsey, file photo  p 
 p The poison used to control fox numbers is overwhelmingly missing its mark and being consumed by native animals instead, West Australian researchers say.  p 
 p The most commonly used fox bait in WA is 1080, which is a naturally occurring poison in native plant species.  p 
 p Native WA animals are relatively immune to the poison because they have adapted to its presence in plants.  p 
 p One dose of poison is fatal to a fox, but it would take 30 or 40 doses of the bait to kill a small native animal.  p 
 p Research by Murdoch University has found that 99 per cent of monitored baits were taken by creatures other than foxes.  p 
 p Other creatures included 95 per cent by native animals and the remaining four per cent by other introduced species including pigs and black rats.  p 
 p Sites were monitored in the state's South West and Great Southern, around Jarrahdale, Dwellingup, Mt Barker and Darkan.  p 
 p Shannon Dundas is a postdoctoral research fellow from Murdoch University School of Veterinary and Life Sciences and she coordinated the site research cameras and monitoring at the bait sites.   p 
 p  strong Audio Player failed to load.  strong   p 
 p 
Try to
 a href="https:  abcmedia.akamaized.net news audio 201408 rural-wa-fox-bait-ineffective-0107.mp3" data-duration="203580" title="Download audio directly" 
Download directly
(1.55 MB)
  a 
  p 
 p class="sr-only" id="srinstruct" Space to play or pause, M to mute, left and right arrows to seek, up and down arrows for volume.  p 
 p Dr Dundas says more needs to be done to ensure that the bait targets foxes.  p 
 p "I'm testing a couple of different ideas," she says.  p 
 p "Either burying or suspending them, and also maybe wrapping them up."  p 
 p Dr Dundas says these methods will mean 1080 can still be used, but that the bait will be less accessible to 'non-target species'.  p 
 p She says her team was focussed on quokka sites where bait is used to protect the animal, but instead they were eating the poison. br    p 
 p Red foxes are highly damaging to the natural environment and native animals.  p 
 p The pests are also a major issue for sheep producers as foxes attack and kill sheep.  p 
 p delivered to your inbox  p 
 p class="subscribebutton" 
 button type="submit" title="Subscribe" name="subscribe" class="btn btn-primary" aria-describedby="subscribebutton-desc" Subscribe  button   p 
 p  span class="faq"  a href=" news rural newsletters " More information  a   span   p 
 p  a href=" news rural newsletters " target="_self" title="" Newsletter  a  strong    strong  a href=" news rural podcasts " target="_self" title="" Podcasts  a  strong    strong  a href=" news rural rss " target="_self" title="" RSS  a   p 
 p Drought-stricken cattle producers are making the tough call to call to sell off the cattle they would have used to rebuild their herds.  p 
 p Fruit and vegetable growers are being forced to choose between hiring illegally or leaving produce to perish.  p 
 p NSW farmers who opted out of a $49m Murray-Darling Basin Plan project claim they have been left without an alternative water supply for their stock.  p 
 p We've heard a lot about the poor health of the Murray Darling river system in recent months — now, the political pressure is beginning to rub in ways not seen before in the usually-safe Coalition seat of Farrer.  p 
 p  small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small   p 
 p  small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small   p 
