 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" T  span he first thing that hits me when I enter Richard Bowler’s living room is the smell. It is a strange, musky, deep aroma that suggests we are in the presence of something wild. I am in North Wales to visit the wildlife photographer and his animals. Hetty is very shy and hides in her cage. She is attractive, with pale, yellowish fur and a white neck. Her frame is slim, with big, pointy ears, amber-coloured eyes and a moist noise, black as rubber. She is like a sweet, feminine, pretty dog – except she is a red fox.  p 
 p Bowler is one of a growing number of people in Britain who look after foxes at home. He is adamant that they are not pets: he cares for them, rather than keeping them. Fen and Rosie live outside in a large run; Hetty, just eight weeks old when I visit, lives indoors. Bowler and his partner, Helen, reared her from one week old at their home near Corwen. She’d been captive-bred and suffered a bad cut on her leg. The couple were asked to look after her. They bathed, massaged and hand-reared the cub through the nights at the beginning. Deaf and blind when she arrived, Hetty quickly bonded with Richard, Helen and their terrier, Maddy.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" T  span he smell aside – and some people don’t actually mind it – keeping a fox is a complicated and demanding affair which often requires a certain fascination to begin with. Originally a keen angler and photographer of larger beasts, Bowler wasn’t all that interested in  em Vulpes vulpes  em  (red fox) until 10 years ago. His opinion changed when he photographed his first fox and he became obsessed by their characters. Each fox, he says, has its own personality.  p 
 p “The first time you get a fox in your lens, there is just something about it,” he explains. “It’s the ultimate species to photograph. They’re just so good-looking. When you get to know foxes, it’s almost like you can read their moods. They almost talk to you with their vocalisations.”  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" F  span oxes, Bowler says, are more like cats than dogs: they can be affectionate but only on their own terms. “When Rosie wants to be fussed, she’ll run up, ears down, tail wagging. You can’t ignore her, you’ve got to go over there and give her a fuss. Other times I go in and think ‘I’ll give her a fuss’ and she doesn’t want to know.”  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" A  span  significant number of people in Britain feed foxes regularly – up to 40 per cent of the population in Brighton, for example – and going one step further is not as rare as you might think. Of the people I spoke to over the last year for my book  em  a href="http:  books.telegraph.co.uk Product Lucy-Jones Foxes-Unearthed--A-Story-of-Love-and-Loathing-in-Modern-Britain 18092866" Foxes Unearthed  a   em , I was surprised by how many had kept foxes at home at one time or the other. Bruce the pest-controller rescued Charlie from being stoned to death at a building site; Rebecca, a farmer in Devon, kept Red for years, and the experience altered the way her family viewed hunting.  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk gardening chelseaflowershow 11615302 Joanna-Lumley-I-let-foxes-sit-on-my-sofa.html" Joanna Lumley famously lets the local London foxes curl up and snooze on her sofa.  a   p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" M  span ike Towler is part of a nationwide network of fox-lovers that allow wildlife rehabilitation centres to release formerly injured foxes on to their land. Occasionally, the animals are so ill they’re unlikely to survive in the wild, which is how Sweetie Scarface ended up living in his nine-acre home in Kent. After being rescued by Riverside Animal Centre in 2013, the fox began to recover from toxoplasmosis. “I got him on the right track, living in a pen and taking him out for a walk, but the instant I took him out, he ran straight into the house. He loves being indoors,” says Towler. He wouldn’t survive in the wild now: “he’d walk straight up to a man with a gun, because he’s forgotten what they were like”.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" S  span o Sweetie made himself at home, even sleeping in Towler’s bed at one time. Now he has his own quarters, responds to familiar voices and likes being chased and stroked. He is the latest in a line of tame foxes that changed Towler’s perception. “Twenty years ago, the best I could have said of a fox is he’s a good-looking villain.”  p 
 p Although it’s perfectly legal, keeping a fox is extremely challenging. They have not been domesticated so they are difficult to tame, and many people report damage and chaos in the home. Foxes don’t make good pets. Although they are very rarely aggressive to humans, they may bite if distressed or panicked – which, as wild animals, they can become quite easily if in contact with people. “It’s because they’re so highly wired,” says Bowler. Responsible rescue centres take care not to treat foxes like pets before they are returned to the wild to avoid problematic incidents.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" L  span ike other animals, foxes can contract sarcoptic mange (treatable in humans) and toxoplasmosis (a threat to pregnant women or people with weak immune systems). Foxes can carry rabies and the tapeworm  em Echinococcus multilocularis  em , both of which can be fatal to humans. The  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk finance newsbysector epic htg 12174907 RSPCA-moves-to-stop-inspectors-seizing-animals-without-vets-evidence-after-years-of-criticism.html" RSPCA   a does not condone keeping foxes as pets “because foxes are wild animals, their needs are very specific and require specialist care”. Very few people have the amount of land, the facilities and the time that foxes require.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" O  span f course, foxes are also highly controversial, which may be why people keep quiet if they have one at home. More than any other native British creature, the fox divides opinion and evokes strong emotions. I asked Richard Bowler if he’d received any criticism or backlash. Comments on social media like “the only good fox is a dead fox” or “I’d like to see a picture of her with a pack of hounds chasing her” had once bothered him: these days he blocks people who post negatively.  p 
 p What does concern him is the possibility of the local hunt coming through and taking Hetty, Rosie or Fen. In the sheep-rearing areas of Wales, too, there is a fear of foxes taking lambs, so there is also a risk from trigger-happy farmers.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" B  span ut his photographs of foxes also incite love and awe – and it is this ambiguity that makes the fox such an intriguing beast. To some, he may be a pest to be quickly shot or a cunning rogue to be hunted; to others, a glorious flash of wildness in a depleted landscape. Some people adore foxes, others can’t stand them. In no other culture but Britain’s is the animal so polarising, at both a local level and in national debate.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" T  span his is partly because the fox’s appetite and ability to hunt has collided with human interests since livestock was first introduced. At the same time, it has also been a useful creature throughout much of history, for fur, medicine and even food.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" T  span he idea of the fox as a cunning trickster took hold through translations from continental folk tales of Reynard, and medieval ecclesiastical art, but during the “Golden Age” of fox-hunting the fox’s fortunes changed again, and as a valued quarry he was preserved and even imported into Britain when numbers were low. As the animal welfare movement grew through the 20th century, so, paradoxically, did fear and loathing of the burgeoning urban fox population. What can’t be denied is the sheer beauty of this most divisive of animals.  p 
 p But be warned. As Bowler says: “99 per cent of people keeping foxes as pets would have a nightmare with it. They need you and you’ve committed to them. If you go away you can let someone look after your dogs, but not your foxes.”  p 
 p  em  a href="http:  books.telegraph.co.uk Product Lucy-Jones Foxes-Unearthed--A-Story-of-Love-and-Loathing-in-Modern-Britain 18092866"  span class="m_first-letter" F  span oxes Unearthed  a  by Lucy Jones is published by Elliot and Thompson on May 19 (£14.99). To order your copy for £12.99 plus p&amp;p call 0844 871 1514 or visit books.telegraph.co.uk  em   p 
 p    p 
 p © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019  p 
 p We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.  p 
 p We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.  p 
 p Thank you for your support.  p 
 p class="bold" Need help?  p 
 p Visit our  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk go adblocking " class="help" adblocking instructions  a 
page.  p 
