 p class="article-description" itemprop="description" Asia is the main habitat of the indigenous tiger species.  p 
 p The tiger ( i Panthera Tigris  i ) is the largest cat, which can reach
to the length of 3.3 meters and up to 306 kilograms in weight. Dark vertical
stripes on its orange reddish fur, makes it easy to recognize tigers. Profound
energy and combination of skin color give this species an adaption advantage
over preys. This plays a major role in improving its prey stalking abilities.
Even with these attractive features, tigers are able to devour their prey due
to their large teeth and long canines.
Asia is the main habitat of the indigenous tiger species. Most specific areas that tiger subspecies live include India and the mountain ranges of the Himalayas, especially on the lower side of the mountain.  br 
  p 
 p Different
types of tigers live in different areas. These habitats sometimes determine
their species classification namely Javan, Siberian, South China, Bengal, and
Sumatran tigers. Bengal Tigers lives in the jungles of Asia, India and China.
When two Bengal tigers interbreed, they bring forth white tigers, which carry
recessive genes controlling color. Another name for white tigers is captive
tigers since they mainly thrive in cages and controlled parks. Russia is a host
to most Siberian Tigers. Tiger species also live in Laos, Bangladesh, Sumatra Island, Thailand,
Malaysia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Nepal.   p 
 p Roving juggles is a
hobby for most tigers. Many places of preference include places with dense vegetation, under bushes, and tall grasses, which give them an easy time to sneak up on their prey. Their dens mainly consist of large old trees, dense vegetation, and caves. Other places that tigers find comfortable are rocky mountainous areas, evergreen forests, tropical rainforests, mangrove swamps, and savannahs.  p 
 p Tigers are introverted animals. They dwell together mainly during mating and when nursing their cubs. Individual tigers roam a large area marking their territory. Tigers do not necessarily patrol frequently but mark their territories using urine and faecal matter over a certain period. Food is also a great asset when it comes to determining tigers’ availability in a certain place.  p 
 p Tigers
have outstanding adaptations that make them fit into their habitat. These
include mitt pads, which are soft and sensitive to heat and prevent them from
hurt when running through thorny bushes. Tigers are also great swimmers, which
makes them they enjoy mass of fresh water unlike other animals that cannot
swim. Unexceptionally, tigers need shelter to remain concealed from predator
such as venomous snakes and dangerous reptiles like crocodiles.   p 
 p Tigers
are endangered species due to merciless pressure from poaching, habitat loss,
and dense growth of human beings’ encroachment. In relation to this, India and
other countries have taken actions against poaching and tiger habitat
reservation to save the species from lessening.
  p 
 p class="wa_d_present" On WorldAtlas.com  p 
 p All maps, graphics, flags, photos and original descriptions © 2019 worldatlas.com  p 
