 p 
  p 
 p Depending on geographic locations, tigers can be found in a variety of habitats. They 
range from tropical forests, evergreen forests, ravines, woodlands, mangrove 
swamps, grasslands, savannas, and rocky country. Some other preferred 
habitats include dense thickets, long grass or tamarisk shrubs along river 
banks. Some tigers seem to take a special liking to old ruins for cover.
Tigers rely on concealment for stalking and ambushing their prey; they 
seek areas with ample food, water and moderately dense cover. Tigers are 
adaptable animals; they can adapt to many different surroundings, as long 
as they have sufficient water, shade and food.  p 
 p The main predator 
of the tiger is humankind. They have been trapped, poisoned and 
hunted heavily by humans not only to eliminate threats to livestock, but 
also for sport, trophies, skins, and sources of traditional medical products. 
Superstition has surrounded tigers for centuries; their body parts are used 
in Asian medicines. Necklets of tiger claws are thought to protect a child 
from "the evil eye"; tiger whiskers are considered either a dreadful 
poison (in Malaysia), a powerful aphrodisiac (in Indonesia), or an aid to 
childbirth (in India and Pakistan); the bones, fat, liver and penis of a 
tiger are prized as medicines.

  p 
 p Humans have also altered the natural habitats of tigers by their 
destruction and encroachment on the tigers' feeding range;
 humans are destroying their habitats by cutting down trees, moving into 
their preferred locations, polluting the water and air, and hunting their 
prey.

  p 
 p The tiger population of the Indian subcontinent has suffered a serious 
decline in the last 50 years.  It is estimated that only 200 tigers survived 
in Nepal, and only 4,000 in India, up from 2,000 in the 1970s.  In the 1990s, 
poaching has escalated in China and Korea, in spite of the Chinese
 ban on tiger products in 1993. At one 
point in the 1970s, tigers' numbers had dropped to 4,000 compared to 100,000 
in the early 1900s.  Today, the world tiger population still only numbers 
about 5,000 to 7,000 animals. An intense effort is under way to save the 
endangered tigers. Unfortunately, tigers are still illegally hunted for their 
fur, bones and other parts to supply markets in China and Taiwan.
Tigers have been hunted to near extinction by poachers, and all subspecies 
have been declared endangered.  p 
