 p Bengali tiger, Madhav Shivpuri National Park, India © National Geographic Stock   Michael Nichols   WWF  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong The tiger  em Pathera tigris   em is possibly the world’s most iconic Big Cat, with recent estimates believing there to be approximately 3,800 left in the wild. Their territory can span several countries, meaning effective collaboration between Range States is crucial to their protection.  strong   p 
 p Once found across Asia, from Turkey to eastern Russia, over the past century tigers have disappeared from south-west and central Asia. Much of the remaining habitat is becoming increasingly fragmented as a consequence of human activity, made worse by poaching and random trapping. Today, tigers are found only in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Russia, Thailand and Viet Nam.  p 
 p tiger skins were found in seizures between 2000 and 2015  p 
 p of tiger products seized are suspected to originate from captive breeding  p 
 p tigers are believed to be held in captive breeding facilities throughout Asia  p 
 p individual tigers are estimated to remain in the wild  p 
 p  strong TRAFFIC is a driving force behind the TX2 initiative, working to stop the illegal wildlife trade and reduce consumer demand. This resulted in the creation of Tiger Day, held annually on July 29th in order to promote awareness about the need to protect tigers through conservation initiatives.  strong   p 
 p Tigernet is a website launched in 2009 by the Indian government and contributed to by TRAFFIC. It collates information about tiger mortalities, poaching and the seizure of tiger parts in order to facilitate improvements in India’s anti-poaching efforts, including providing training and tools to enforcement agencies and park rangers to aid in the detection of illegal metal snares. TRAFFIC is also a founding member of the Malaysian Conservation Alliance for Tigers (MYCAT) which raises awareness and increases support for the conservation of tigers within Malaysia.  p 
 p Although Tigers are listed in Appendix I of CITES, which bans all commercial international trade for for member countries, recent years have revealed an increase in tiger captive breeding to fuel demand for various tiger products.  p 
 p  a class="btn semi white" href=" what-we-do perspectives captive-breeding " title="Captive breeding" captive breeding  a   p 
 p Tiger skins and assorted objects at the US Fish and Wildlife Service repository © TRAFFIC  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p  strong Although there are occasions where tigers are killed opportunistically or in retaliation for loss of livestock, the vast majority are poached to fuel demand for products consumed in Asian markets.  strong   p 
 p TRAFFIC has observed the illegal trade in tiger bone, skins, claws, teeth, blood and others, often for use in supposedly “medicinal” products.  p 
 p To combat this demand TRAFFIC has been instrumental in the development and implementation of Social and Behavioural Change Communication (SBCC) initiatives to help reduce the motivations behind consumer consumptions of such products.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" what-we-do projects-and-approaches behavioural-change " title="social behaviour change communications" more about SBCC  a   p 
 p Seized tiger pelt with claws © Ola Jennersten   WWF-Sweden  p 
 p class="info-hover" i  p 
 p Recent  a href=" publications reports reduced-to-skin-and-bones-re-examined " target="_blank" title="Reduced to skin and bones" rel="noreferrer noopener" TRAFFIC analysis of the illegal Tiger trade  a  mapped a minimum of 1,755 tigers seized from 2000–2015, averaging more than two animals recovered per week.  p 
 p With at least 758 whole skins seized, they represent the most common commodity type in trade. Other items seized included bones and tiger bone wine, claws, canines, paws, gall bladders as well as dead and live tigers.  p 
 p A map of tiger seizures per country between 2000–2015 © TRAFFIC  p 
 p class="info-hover left" i  p 
 p explore projects and recent publications related to our work within trade in tiger products.  p 
 p Explore the latest publications, reports and papers from  strong TRAFFIC   strong related to tiger conservation and the trade in tiger products.  p 
 p Visit our  a href=" publications " resource library  a  for the full  strong TRAFFIC   strong publication archive.  p 
 p Various projects combating wildlife crime in source and destination countries are working to protect tigers from poaching and illegal trade, both physical and online. Find out more about how we're working to keep tiger numbers up.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" what-we-do projects-and-approaches wildlife-crime " title="Fighting wildlife crime" fighting wildlife crime  a   p 
 p Changing attitudes, knowledge and consumer behaviour is a crucial element in the fight to save tigers. We're currently implementing Social and Behavioural Change Communications initiatives in China and Viet Nam to address the consumption of tiger products.  p 
 p  a class="btn" href=" what-we-do projects-and-approaches behavioural-change " title="Behavioural Change" behavioural change  a   p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm;"  strong TRAFFIC  strong  là một tổ chức phi chính phủ hoạt động toàn cầu với mục tiêu thúc đẩy bảo tồn đa dạng sinh học và phát triển bền vững.  p 
 p style="margin-left:0cm;margin-right:0cm;"  a href=" vn about-us our-mission " Tìm hiểu thêm về chúng tôi &gt;  a   p 
 p TRAFFIC is a registered UK charity, Number 1076722.  p 
 p Our headquarters are located at TRAFFIC, David Attenborough Building, Pembroke Street, Cambridge, CB2 3QZ  p 
 p class="copyright" ©2019 TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL. All rights reserved.  p 
 p Developed by Ian Kimber at Rochdale Online, designed by Marcus Cornthwaite.  p 
 p We use cookies to enhance the functionality of this website. To learn more about the types of cookies this website uses, see our  a href=" about-us our-organisation cookie-statement " Cookie Statement  a . You can accept cookies by clicking the "I accept" button or by cancelling this cookie notice; or you can manage your cookie preferences via "Manage Cookies".  p 
 p You can opt out of certain types of cookies (e.g. those used in social media sharing) by choosing "I do not accept".  The website will still largely function well, but with slightly less functionality in places. To manage your cookie preferences in future, visit the "Cookie Statement" link at the bottom of any page.  p 
