 p style="text-align: center;" Tigers are as majestic as they appear.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of tigers in the world - Malayan tiger, South China Tiger, Indochinese Tiger, Sumatran Tiger, Bengal Tiger, and Siberian Tiger.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  They usually hunt for food in the late afternoons or at night for larger prey like wild pigs, deer and, at times, monkeys and even frogs. Tigers need to feed on up to 27 kilograms of meat in one night, but more often they consume up to 6 kilograms of meat during a meal.  p 
 p In the past, Indonesia had three subspecies of tigers: Bali, Java, and Sumatran tigers. The Bali tiger was extinct in the 1930s and Java tiger in 1970s. Today, fewer than 400 Sumatran tigers exist. The last of Indonesia's tigers are holding on for survival against deforestation, poaching, and human-tiger conflicts. When humans interfere with the ecosystem, animal habitats are inevitably affected. This has tragically happened and is currently happening to Sumatran tigers, elephants, rhinos and other wildlife.  p 
 p Bali Safari Park's conservation team are actively involved in efforts to build breeding centres equipped with Genome resource bank to prevent further extinction.  p 
 p Tigers are mostly nocturnal and live solitary lives. They have excellent eyesight and are ambush predators at night relying on the camouflage their stripes provide. They are also very good swimmers and have been known to kill prey while swimming.  p 
 p Tigers are usually fiercely territorial and mark their large home ranges.  p 
 p All tigers are carnivorous and don't feed upon vegetation. Tigers mainly eat wild pigs, antelope, deer, and water buffalo. However, they are also known to hunt sloth bears, leopards, crocodiles and pythons, as well as monkeys and hares.  p 
 p Taman Safari Indonesia (the founding organization of Bali Safari Park), along with the Ministry of Forestry, PKBSI (Indonesian Zoo Association), and CPSG (Conservation Planning Specialist Group) was selected to build Animal Breeding Center, especially for Sumatran tigers, that is equipped with Genome resource bank where sperm can be stored. The tiger cubs have a superior gen quality to preserve the genetic chaste.  p 
 p Reintroduction program is plausible when approached in the right direction. TSI's involvement is not only in ex situ but also on in situ. Along with PKBSI, TSI has set up the Sumatran Tiger Rescue Team, which roles are to help the Government handle human-tiger conflicts to prevent the killing of both humans and tigers.  p 
 p TSI, TNWC (Tambling Nature Wildlife Conservation), Ministry of Forestry &amp; Environment, and PKBSI managed to release a number of Sumatran tigers in 2008 and in January 2010, we released two more to their natural habitat in Bukit Barisan Selatan National Park in Sumatra. In August 2011, one tiger was released at Sembilang National Park and a couple more at Bukit Barisan National Park in 2015.  p 
 p Tigers can reach a length of up to 3.3 metres (11 feet) and weigh as much as 300 kilograms (660 pounds).  p 
 p We have hundreds of animals in our park from over 100 species, including some of the rarest and endangered.  p 
 p Not only are we one of the leading wildlife conservations in Indonesia, we are devoted to caring for the animals in our own safari. We ensure the highest standards of wellbeing is given to all our animals.  p 
 p Browse below to see the animals that we have given a loving home to.  p 
 p The world's largest land mammals gather in groups and are led by females! It requires them to drink 150 litres of water per day to quench their thirst.  p 
 p Lions are the second largest cats in the world after the tiger and can be found in Sub-Saharan Africa (West African Lion) and in western India (Asiatic Lion). They live [...]  p 
 p The word rhinoceros is derived through Latin from the Ancient Greek: which is composed of rhino, "nose" and keras, "horn". There are five living species of Rhinoceros. The two African [...]  p 
 p The third largest mammals on land are the hippopotamus. These animals can weigh up to 2000 kg. The common hippopotamus lives near rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps. During the day, [...]  p 
 p Tigers are as majestic as they appear. The tiger is the largest member of the "big cat" species, as they can weigh up to 350kg. There are 6 subspecies of [...]  p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali – Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show   Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Theme Park  p 
 p  strong Bali Safari &amp; Marine Park  strong   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Tourism Show  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.balitheatre.com en" target="_blank" rel="noopener"  strong Bali Agung Show Bali Theatre  strong   a   p 
 p Indonesia Leading Thematic Restaurant  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.balisafarimarinepark.com safari-info restaurants "  strong Tsavo Lion Restaurant  strong   a   p 
 p Bali Leading Green Resort  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.marariversafarilodge.com "  strong Mara River Safari Lodge  strong   a   p 
 p class="copyright-text" Copyright © 2019. br All rights reserved.  p 
