 p Join us in our efforts to Save The Tigers  p 
 p Bring the family to our 11th Annual "Wild" Easter Egg Hunt. The fun begins Saturday, April 13th at 1 pm and is FREE WITH PARK ADMISSION. All children must be registered to take part. Tickets can be ordered for FREE. Our Wild Easter Egg Hunt is for children 10 and under and is open to the first 350 children. Please note - Groupons will not be accepted for this special event.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.tigerworld.us events wild-easter-egg-hunt " target='"_blank"' class="more-link themebutton" Read More  a   p 
 p We need you! Want to help Tiger World? Showcase your unique gifts because we need your help.  If you are interested in volunteering, please email volunteer@tigerworld.us for more information. Volunteer sessions are held at Tiger World on the first Saturday of every month.  p 
 p Come meet our new baby sloth Ignacio. He will be available daily for a meet and greet with you and your family. Call ahead for more information 704-279-6363  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 Tiger-World-Logo-rockwell-ncR.jpg"  img class="alignleft size-full wp-image-41" src="http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 Tiger-World-Logo-rockwell-ncR.jpg" alt="Tigerworld logo" width="250" height="239"   a Tiger World Endangered Wildlife Preserve is a nonprofit animal conservation and educational center dedicated to the rescue, rehabilitation, and preservation of exotic animals. We are open to the public for educational guided tours and walkabout self-guided tours in  a href="http:  www.rockwellnc.gov html maps.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Rockwell, NC  a .  p 
 p Tiger World is a different kind of Zoo. We are dedicated to the conservation and education of all threatened and endangered species. Our educational tours personally guide visitors throughout the preserve learning about each animal providing an individual hands-on experience. You will see the animals in a natural setting and have the opportunity to observe them running, playing, swimming, eating, sleeping, and interacting with their handlers.  p 
 p Our goal is to provide the best environment in captivity for the animals while also providing a stimulating learning environment for visitors. The intimate setting is a great place to bring the family and learn about the animals up close and personally.  p 
 p  strong  a href="http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 TW-logo.jpg"  img class="alignright size-full wp-image-58" src="http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 TW-logo.jpg" alt="Tiger World logo" width="244" height="84" srcset="http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 TW-logo.jpg 244w, http:  www.tigerworld.us wp-content uploads 2015 09 TW-logo-240x84.jpg 240w" sizes="(max-width: 244px) 100vw, 244px"   a Tiger World is one of a handful of accredited zoos in the nation that operates with NO TAX SUPPORT. We are a licensed and USDA Approved Facility and registered non-profit organization. We welcome all monetary, materials, food and service donations to help in our worthy cause. We depend on admissions, membership dues and donations for funding and helping care for our animals. Your support is critical to our future.  strong   p 
