 p Tigers are self sufficient, courageous predators that know what they want and know how to get it. This makes them quite formidable in competition.  p 
 p  strong WHERE THEY ARE FOUND  strong  br 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Russia, and Thailand.  p 
 p  strong WHY THEY ARE IMPORTANT  strong  br 
As well as being a majestic animal, in their role as top predator, tigers keep their habitat healthy by stabilizing the populations of quick breeding grazing animals such as deer. These grass eaters would overgraze and create imbalance in the habitat if their numbers went unchecked.  p 
 p  strong HOW THEY ARE THREATENED BY ILLEGAL TRADE  strong  br 
Poaching is the leading threat to wild tigers. It is believed that there are many medicinal beliefs attached to the body parts particularly tiger bone.  p 
 p  strong HOW YOU CAN HELP  strong  br 
learn more about how many animals, like tigers, are a symbol of the health of the forests they inhabit; these same forests secure water, mitigate climate change, and provide a host of natural resources required for healthy human populations. So when we protect magnificent species we are also ensuring our own health and well-being.  p 
 p CITES Listing: Tigers have been included in Appendix I since the beginning of the Convention in 1975, with the exception of Panthera tigtis altaica (Siberian Tiger), which was listed in Appendix II. All tiger sub-species were included in Appendix I in 1987. International commercial trade in specimens of tigers is prohibited.  p 
 p  strong FACTSHEET FROM OUR COLLABORATOR, PANTHERA:  strong   p 
 p  strong Learn about the project beneficiary:  strong   p 
 p Michelle Yeoh is a tiger. Find your kindred species now!  p 
 p Unlike almost all other big cats, tigers are superb swimmers. They seem to enjoy bathing and play in the water when young. As adults, they often swim several kilometers to hunt or to cross rivers.  p 
 p class="rtecenter"  a href=" sites default files species itw_tiger_card.jpg" target="_blank"  img alt="" height="800" src=" sites default files species itw_tiger_card.jpg"  View infographic  a   p 
 p The world’s tiger population fell by 97% in the last century, from 100,000 to 3,500 and there are now more captive tigers in each of the US and China than are remaining in the wild.  p 
 p Join the 3 million others who have pledged to protect their kindred species. Unleash your wild instinct to protect life and start a movement!  p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="https:  wildfor.life pledge"  strong GIVE YOUR NAME TO CHANGE THE GAME  strong   a   p 
 p Wild for Life awarded Accolade Award, Hermes Creative Award, Webby People's Choice Award in Green Websites, and 2016 top ten most influential advocacy campaigns in China by Weibo (Chinese Twitter).   p 
