 p  span Discovery is committed to bringing it back. We’ve partnered with World Wildlife Fund to support a global effort to double the number of tigers in the wild by 2022. This collaboration aims to ensure a healthy habitat for future generations of tigers by helping conserve nearly six million acres of protected land across four countries.  span   p 
 p  span Actor Freida Pinto joins the Project C.A.T. fight as the voice of the tiger in this :60 global PSA. Watch and share to help raise awareness of the threats tigers face.  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span With Project C.A.T. -  i Conserving Acres for Tigers  i  - we’re making it our mission to ensure a future for tigers and other endangered wildlife so there will always be stories to tell.  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span As a large predator, tigers are an umbrella species. They play a key role in maintaining a healthy ecosystem. By protecting tigers and their habitat, we’re also helping to protect other at risk animals that share this habitat, like Asian elephants, greater one-horned rhinos, clouded leopards and important prey species. Since tigers need vast amounts of land to thrive, this initiative also protects vital forests, which in turn benefits local communities, and the planet as a whole.  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span Tigers face multiple threats from poaching, habitat loss and fragmentation, conflict with humans and overhunting of their prey species.  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span In 2010, when tiger numbers were at an all-time low, governments of the 13 tiger range countries decided innovative conservation efforts were needed. They committed to an ambitious and visionary goal: Tx2 – to double wild tigers by 2022. WWF played a key role in helping to develop this plan and continue to ensure it is put into practice. With governments, scientists, rangers, communities and companies like Discovery, WWF is working to ensure tiger conservation is given the priority and investment it requires.  span  a target="_blank" href="https:  worldwildlife.org discoverycommunications"   span Learn More  span   a   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span From award winning filmmaker Ross Kauffman, TIGERLAND follows the people on the front lines trying to save the tiger from extinction. Learn how you can help wild tigers in the landscapes featured in this film.  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span Available on Discovery Go starting March 23rd  span   p 
 p Be a voice for endangered tigers with this fierce bracelet and necklace. ALEX AND ANI will donate 20% of the purchase price to Discovery’s Project C.A.T. br  small *Purchase price includes sales to AMERICAN925 retail and web customers and authorized retailers.  small   p 
 p This jewelry series empowers its wearer while benefitting wild tigers and helping preserve their legacy and existence in the wild. H.O.W.L. will donate $50 for each wild cat pendant and ring sold to Discovery’s Project C.A.T.  p 
 p Be a voice for endangered tigers with this fierce bracelet and necklace. ALEX AND ANI will donate 20% of the purchase price to Discovery’s Project C.A.T. br  small *Purchase price includes sales to AMERICAN925 retail and web customers and authorized retailers.  small   p 
 p This jewelry series empowers its wearer while benefitting wild tigers and helping preserve their legacy and existence in the wild. H.O.W.L. will donate $50 for each wild cat pendant and ring sold to Discovery’s Project C.A.T.  p 
 p  span Check out what everyone’s saying and sharing about Project C.A.T.  span  br  span Join the conversation!  span   p 
 p class="scrollreveal-sequenced"  span They are nature’s largest and most mysterious feline predators — and they need our help. As Discovery embarks on a landmark project to protect endangered tigers, take a step into the world of tigers and experience these legendary creatures up close.  span   p 
 p After you enable the Project C.A.T. skill, try asking:  p 
 p Alexa, ask Project C.A.T...  p 
 p Ok, Google, open Project C.A.T...  p 
 p For a fact  p 
 p For a joke  p 
 p How can I get involved?  p 
 p How do I watch tigers in virtual reality?  p 
 p How can I share info about Project C.A.T.?  p 
 p How do I donate to Project C.A.T.?  p 
 p class="wwf-footer"  span ‘WWF’ and ‘World Wildlife Fund’ are WWF Registered Trademarks. © 1986 Panda Symbol WWF  span   p 
