 p Cascading waterfalls, overlooking views of scenic exhibits, vibrant foliage and a vast array of exotic animals hailing from dozens of Asian countries are what make up Asia – Trail of the Tiger. From India to Japan, the Philippines to Russia, Malaysia to Sri Lanka, and Papua New Guinea to Myanmar, Asia – Trail of the Tiger is home to some of Asia’s most beautiful furry and feathered creatures. Come see your favorite red panda napping, the siamangs hanging around, the tiger cubs playing, the cutest otters snacking, and so much more!  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Asian Fairy Bluebird  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Irena puella  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Southeast Asia including the countries of Nepal, Sri Lanka, China and the Philippines  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  The Asian fairy bluebird measures 9.4 to 10.6 inches in length.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Nectar, insects and fruit, especially figs.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least concern – Though listed as least concerned, the population is suspected to be in decline owing to ongoing habitat destruction and fragmentation, as well as hunting pressure.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts  span : They have a very loud contact call and have a song consisting of a loud, melodious series of whistling notes.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Asian Small-clawed Otter  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Aonyx cinereus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Extends from India in South Asia eastwards through Southeast Asia to Palawan (Philippines), Taiwan and southern China  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  The smallest extant otter species, this otter is from 28 to 39 inches long of which 12 inches is in the tail. They can weigh 2 to 12 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Carnivore: Fish, crabs, mudskipper, snakes, rodents, and snails  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Vulnerable – Major threats are destruction of its habitats due to changing land use pattern in the form of developmental activities.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Typical habitats of the otters in west Java are wetland systems having pools and stagnant water.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Otters:  span  female Merrill and male Sawyer  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Asiatic Black Bear  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Ursus thibetanus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Parts of Middle East and Asian countries such as Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, Japan, and Vietnam  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Females bears weigh between 88 and 309 lbs and males between 132 and 441 lbs.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore strong :  strong  Consist of shoots, forbs and leaves in spring, insects and a variety of tree and shrub-borne fruits in summer, and nuts in autumn.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Vulnerable – Habitat loss due to logging, expansion of human settlements, roadway networks, and hydro-power stations, combined with hunting.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  There is a crescent-shaped yellow or cream marking on the chest, which has led to this bear being called the ‘moon bear’ in some areas.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Moon Bears:  span  brothers Thai and Chai  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Azure-winged Magpie  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Cyanopica cyanus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  China, Japan, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Portugal, Russian Federation and Spain  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Between 12.2 and 13.78 inches  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Acorns and pine nuts, invertebrates and their larvae, soft fruits and berries, and also human-provided scraps in parks and towns.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least concern – Does not met the standards of vulnerable and the population trend seems to be increasing.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  An Azure-winged magpie has a life expectancy of 15 years.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Binturong  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span  A em rctictis binturong penicillatus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  South and Southeast Asia occurring from eastern Nepal, Bangladesh, northeast India and southern China through mainland and islands in Southeast Asia.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Weighs 30 to 50 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Frugivorous: predominately eats fruits  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Vulnerable – Habitat loss and degradation, and fragmentation are threats.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Binturongs are primarily arboreal, but they do descend to the ground  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Binturongs:  span  male Tasik  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Black-naped Fruit Dove  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Ptilinopus melanaspilus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  They are medium-sized birds that can grow up to 9.5 inches long.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Frugivorous: Diet conists mainly of various fruits, figs and berries.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least Concern – Does not meet the standards of vulnerable  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  The female usually lays one single white egg.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Bleeding Heart Dove  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Gallicolumba luzonica  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia &amp; Papua New Guinea  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Up to 12 inches in length, 6 ounces in weight and 15 inches in wingspan  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Feeds on the ground, eating a variety of seeds, fruits and invertebrates  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – The Luzon bleeding-heart population is undergoing a moderate decline as a result of habitat loss and fragmentation, caused by deforestation for timber and the expansion of agriculture.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  This bird is a secretive dove that is named for the red spot on its breast, which resembles a bleeding wound.  p 
 p style="text-align: left;"  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Bornean Orangutan  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Pongo pygmaeus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia and Malaysia  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Males: 3.9-4.6 ft. weighing 110-220 lbs. | Females: 3.3-3.9 ft. weighing 66-110 lbs.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: mostly fruits, but also includes leaves, barks, flowers and insects  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Critically Endangered – Major threats are destruction, degradation and fragmentation of their habitats, as well as hunting.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Bornean orangutans are the largest arboreal mammals in the world.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Orangutans:  span  Inside Exhibit: male Schnitz and female Pepper | Outside Exhibit: male Solaris, females Dara and baby Sofie  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Chestnut-breasted Malkoha  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Rhamphococcyx curvirostris singularis  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  17 to 19 inches in length  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Frugivorous: Fruits, figs, and berries  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least Concern – Due to destruction of habitat  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Unlike many cuckoos, Malkohas build their own nests and raise their own young.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Cinereous Vulture  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Aegypius monachus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Parts of Europe, Asia, and the Middle East including China, Turkey, and Spain  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Huge, broad-winged vultures though they are short, growing between 39-42 inches  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Scavenger: Its diet consists mainly of carrion from medium-sized or large mammal carcasses. Snakes and insects have been recorded as food items.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened: Threats are direct mortality caused by humans (either accidentally or deliberately) and decreasing availability of food.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Its global population is estimated at roughly 14,000-20,000 mature individuals.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Vultures:  span  females Eve and Meera  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Collared Finch-billed Bulbul  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Spizixos semitorques  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  China, Province of China, Taiwan, and Vietnam  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Up to 9 inches in length  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Their diets consist of fruits, seeds, and insects.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – The population is suspected to be stable in the absence of evidence for any declines or substantial threats.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  These birds are named for the white collar of feathers around their necks.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Crested Wood Partridge  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Rollulus rouloul  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, and Thailand  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  These partridges can grow up to 10 inches in length.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Their diet mainly consists of fruits as well as seeds, large beetles, wood ants and small snails.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – Forest destruction in the Sundaic lowlands of Indonesia and Malaysia has been extensive, hurting the habitats in which these animals live.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  These colorful birds can usually be seen in parties of five to fifteen individuals, foraging for food in the leaf-litter of the forest floor.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Green-naped Pheasant Pigeon  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Otidiphaps nobilis nobilis  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia &amp; Papua New Guinea  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  16.5 to 19.7 inches in length and 1.1 pounds in weight  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Frugivorous: Seeds and fallen fruit  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least Concern – The population is undergoing a slow decline owing to deforestation of its primary forest habitat.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  It is thought that these birds were once pigeons, but grew large and adapted to a life of living on the ground like a pheasant.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Malayan Sun Bear  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Helarctos malayanus euryspilus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, and other Southeast Asian countries  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Adults are about 47-59 inches long and weigh 60-176 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Termites, ants, beetle larvae, bee larvae and honey, variety of fruit species, especially figs.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Vulnerable- Two major threats to sun bears are habitat loss and commercial hunting  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Sun Bears have a long tongue, perfect for reaching their favorite food – honey.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Sun Bears:  span  male Palu and female Suntil  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Malayan Tapir  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Tapirus indicus indicus   em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia (Sumatera), Malaysia, Myanmar and Thailand  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Tapirs grow to be between 5 ft. 11 in. and 8 ft. 2 in., and weigh between 550 and 710 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Tapirs are browsers that feed on more than 380 different species of leaves and seeds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Endangered – Primary threats to the species are large scale deforestation and increase in hunting.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Malayan tapirs are solitary animals that are usually nocturnal.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Tapirs:  span  female Haddie, male Rosco  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Malayan Tiger  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Panthera tigris jacksoni  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Southern &amp; Central Malaysia.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Adult males weigh around 260lb, while females average 220lb.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Small prey such as birds, fish, rodents, amphibians, and reptiles in addition to mammals such as primates, porcupines, Water buffalo, elephants and rhinos.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Critically Endangered – Primary threats are illegal hunting and trading of tiger bones for medicine and wealth  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Tigers are generally solitary, with adults maintaining exclusive territories, or home ranges.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Malayan Tigers:  span  father Christopher and male cubs Stubbley and Osceola  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Purple-tailed Imperial Pigeon  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Ducula rufigaster  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Philippines  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  On average, they weigh about 15-21 ounces.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivores: Forages on the ground, searching the leaf-litter for seeds, fallen fruits and invertebrates  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – The species is threatened by habitat loss and fragmentation through deforestation for timber extraction and agricultural expansion.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Generation length is 6.6 years.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Red Panda  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Ailurus fulgens fulgens  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar and Nepal  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Red pandas weigh between 8-14 pounds and are 22-25 inches in length plus a 15-19 inch long tail.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Young leaves and shoots of bamboo, fruit, roots, succulent grasses, acorns, lichens, birds’ eggs and insects.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Endangered – Major threats are habitat loss and fragmentation, degradation and physical threats.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  French Zoologist Frédéric Cuvier first described the western Red panda Ailurus fulgens fulgens in 1825, 48 years before the black-and-white bear was cataloged.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Red Pandas:  span  Pathway – female Masu, males Timor and two cubs; Asia – female Bo  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Rhinoceros Hornbill  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Buceros rhinoceros silvestris  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  One of the largest species of hornbills, being approximately 36-48 inches long and weighing 4.4 to 4.6 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Fruits, nuts, small animals including lizards and birds, and some insects  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – Threats are forest destruction in the Sundaic lowlands of Indonesia that have been extensive as a result of commercial and illegal logging, as well as agricultural development.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  The female will seal herself into the nest cavity leaving only a narrow slot opening through which the male will deliver food to her and the chicks.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Hornbills:  span  male Riobi and female Oona  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Sarus Crane  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span  Antigone antigone  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  India, South-East Asia and northern Australia  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Sarus cranes can grow up to 61 inches.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Feeds on a variety of roots and tubers as well as invertebrates and amphibians.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Main threats are loss and degradation of wetlands, as a result of drainage and conversion to agriculture, ingestion of pesticides and the hunting of adults and collection of eggs and chicks.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Indian birds inhabit open wet and dry grasslands, agricultural fields, marshes and pools, while the South-East Asian and Australian species prefers the dry Savannah woodlands.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Sarus Cranes:  span  male Icabod and female Sally  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Siamang  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Symphalangus syndactylus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  29-35 inches with males being slightly larger. Siamangs weigh between 17-28 lbs.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: consisting of mostly fruit, Siamangs also eat leaves and the occasional small bird, bird eggs, spiders and insects.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Critically endangered – Major threats are destruction, degradation and fragmentation of their habitats, as well as hunting.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Siamangs are strictly arboreal, highly territorial and primarily monogamous.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Siamangs:  span  father Bali, mother Hitam and young male Guntur  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Southern cassowary  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Casuarius casuarius  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Australia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Cassowaries are very large birds growing up to 71 inches in length.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Herbivore: Eats mostly fallen fruit, although it is fairly undiscriminating.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Vulnerable – Cyclones are considered a threat to the species in Australia and hunting is a threat in Indonesia and Papua New Guinea  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Cassowaries are flightless birds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Cassowaries:  span  male Hallagar and female Elgie  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong Victoria Crowned Pigeon  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Goura victoria   em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Indonesia &amp; Papua New Guinea  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Typically 29 to 30 inches long. Some pigeons may exceed a length of 31 inches and a weight of 7.7 pounds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Fallen fruit (particularly figs), seeds, and insects.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Near Threatened – A major threat is that it is prized by hunters for meat and, to a lesser extent, for its feathers.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  This species is named after Queen Victoria.  p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong White-Cheeked Gibbon  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Nomascus leucogenys  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Vietnam and possibly extinct in China (Yunnan – Native)  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Mainly frugivorous (eats fruit); Also eats leaves and flowers  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Critically Endangered – Primary threats are deforestation through agricultural intrusion into mountainous areas and fuel-wood and timber extraction from remaining forests.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  Gibbons are strictly arboreal, living in tall, heavily degraded evergreen and semi-evergreen forest.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Virginia Zoo Gibbons:  span  black male Dexter and white female Asia  p 
 p    p 
 p  span style="color: #99cc00;"  strong White-crested laughing thrush  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Scientific Name:  span   em Garrulax leucolophus  em   p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Found In:  span  Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, India, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar, Nepal, Thailand, and Vietnam  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Size:  span  Grows 6-8 inches tall and weighs 120 grams.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Diet:  span  Omnivore: Diet includes insects and small vertebrates including lizards. They also eat fruit, nectar and seeds.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Threat Level:  span  Least Concern – The population is suspected to be in decline owing to ongoing habitat destruction and fragmentation.  p 
 p  span style="text-decoration: underline;" Facts:  span  White-crested laughing thrushes are noisy, social birds who occasionally burst into loud calls that sound just like laughter.  p 
 p Are you dying to take one of these animals home with you? With our symbolic Zoodoption program, you can become a “Zoo Parent”  that contributes directly toward one of the Zoos’ animal’s care and feeding for one year.  p 
 p Contributions from animal adoptions go directly to the Virginia Zoo Keeper Fund. With your gift, we buy treats, toys and supplies for the Zoo’s 500+ animals, as well as provide specialized training for their zookeepers. Our adoption packages make perfect gifts for people of all ages!  p 
 p Every animal at the Virginia Zoo is available for adoption at several donation levels, starting at just $25.  p 
 p class="email-intro" Get zoo news, updates &amp; discounts:  p 
 p class="copyright clearfix" Copyright © 2009 – 2015  span class="no-break" Virginia Zoological Society.  span   p 
 p class="footer-address clearfix"  span class="no-break" Virginia Zoo  span   •   span class="no-break" 3500 Granby Street  span   •   span class="no-break" Norfolk, VA 23504  span   p 
