 p class="agree-button" Close  p 
 p class="photo-attribution"  John Foxx Stockbyte Getty Images  p 
 p Tigers are magnificent big cats that lived in an expansive territory ranging from eastern Turkey to Manchuria. Their population has decreased radically, though there are still some to be found in China, Russia, parts of India, Korea and the Himalayan region. The worldwide tiger population is estimated to be fewer than 3,500, with some species nearly extinct. The animals tigers share their habitat with vary according to the species of tiger and where it's found.  p 
 p There are about 1,850 Bengal tigers in the wild, the most plentiful of all tigers. Home for Bengals is the mountains, forests and grasslands of parts of South Asia. Other animals in the Bengal's habitat include snow leopard, red panda, Asian elephant and greater one-horned rhino. The Bengal is considered endangered by the World Wildlife Fund, in large part due to conflict with humans. Poaching and "retaliation killings," where people kill tigers for getting into crops or killing livestock, are causing their numbers to shrink.  p 
 p The World Wildlife Fund puts the Siberian's population at about 450. These cats live in parts of North Korea, northeast China and eastern Russia, also known as the Amur Region. It's a mountainous area that can be bitter cold in the winter with hot summers. Other animals sharing the Siberian's habitat -- and serving as its supper -- include deer, elk and wild boar. Amur leopards are also in the region. Siberian tigers are threatened by poachers and habitat loss from logging, road construction, mining and urban expansion.  p 
 p There are an estimated 300 Indochinese tigers in the wild, spread across southern China, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Malaysia and eastern Myanmar. Their habitat is composed mainly of forests with mountainous terrain. Other animals in the habitat include other tigers, elephants, leopards, deer, buffalo and wild boar. Indochinese tigers are threatened by poachers, loss of prey and loss of habitat.  p 
 p The Malayan tiger's range is limited to the southern part of the Malay Peninsula, in small forests and abandoned agricultural land. The tigers share their habitat with their prey, which includes sun bear, deer and wild boar. Other animals in the Malay Peninsula include the Asian elephant, Sumatran rhinoceros and Malayan tapir. The tigers are threatened by logging operations and road development, as well as human-tiger conflict.  p 
 p There are six species of tigers, and all of them share their habitat with animals that will serve as nutrition. Tigers are carnivores after all; an adult tiger can consume up to 88 pounds at one time. Tigers in India have domestic and water buffalo, wild boar, and several species of deer to dine on. Other tigers will include fish, monkeys, snakes and birds in their diet, depending on what their home range is.  p 
 p onclick="window.__cmp('displayConsentUi')" class="footer-nav__link" Eu Consent Manager  p 
 p class="footer__legal" 2019 PART OF WILD SKY MEDIA | FAMILY &amp; PARENTING © 2019 WILD SKY MEDIA. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.  p 
