 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p These formidable animals are critically endangered in the wild. Zoos around the world, including Melbourne Zoo, have become part of the battle to prevent the extinction of this species.  p 
 p The Sumatran Tiger is classed as ‘critically endangered’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN ‘red list’), with numbers in the wild falling. The animals remaining in the wild may number in the hundreds. Threats include habitat loss as palm oil plantations are extended through their natural range, hunting for traditional medicine (although this is illegal in all countries), and loss of prey.   p 
 p Melbourne Zoo is involved in a captive breeding program for these critically endangered animals. Four cubs, born in February 2010, can be seen daily at the zoo. Visiting the Zoo helps to fight extinction. Meeting the Sumatran Tigers at Melbourne Zoo is an opportunity not only to see these rare animals, but also to learn about the threats facing this species, what the international community is doing to try to conserve the species, and how Zoos Victoria is contributing to the fight.   p 
 p The Sumatran Tiger is found on the Indonesian island of Sumatra in habitat ranging from mountainous forests to lowland forests. The Sumatran Tiger is one of nine subspecies of tiger (three of which are already extinct), and it is believed that these animals became isolated to Sumatra when rising sea levels smothered the land, causing the formation of islands in the region.  p 
 p Sumatran Tigers are the smallest of all tigers, and their size assists them in navigating the dense, tropical forests in which they hunt.   p 
 p Being solitary animals, they are highly adapted to ambush hunting, using their stripes as camouflage against the dappled light of the forest floor. Sumatran Tigers will lie in wait to prey upon wild boar, birds, tapir, fish and deer.  p 
 p Female, born 2002  p 
 p Binjai is super smart and really enjoys interactions with her keepers. She is highly observant and really quick to learn new things.  p 
 p Male, born 2010  p 
 p Hutan has a lovely nature and is a big softy. He's also really inquisitive and loves to explore.  p 
 p Female, born 2010  p 
 p Indrah is our most vocal tiger. She loves to chuff and chat to the keepers in the mornings. If the sun's out she likes nothing better than lying on her back catching some rays  p 
 p  span X-rays of one Melbourne Zoo’s Sumatran tigers have provided a rare look at the impressive teeth of this critically endangered species.  span   p 
 p Two of Melbourne Zoo’s most popular residents have been earning their stripes in the training department as they approach their 9th birthday this Saturday (9 February).  p 
 p Sumatran Tigers Indrah and Hutan have been participating in hand-feeding training as part of their health care.  p 
 p Meet one of Melbourne Zoo’s three critically endangered Sumatran Tigers and the passionate keeper who cares for them. Find out about the threats facing these animals and the things that you can do to help save them.  p 
 p You can help us label palm oil once and for all. Let Ministers know that you want the choice.  p 
 p The Sumatran Tiger is critically endangered with around 240 remaining in the wild. Despite hunting being illegal, tigers continue to be killed by poachers. You can help us fight extinction by adopting the Sumatran Tiger.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
