 p class="label" Opening hours  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p class="label" Night Safari  p 
 p 7:15pm - 12am (Last entry at 11.15pm)  p 
 p Lifespan  p 
 p and up to 18 - 20 years in zoos  p 
 p Diet  p 
 p such as deer  p 
 p Habitat  p 
 p swamps &amp; scrubland  p 
 p Range  p 
 p Fewer than 300 Malayan tigers are left in the wild. Besides illegal poaching, habitat loss and human-tiger conflicts compound the problem. To involve and educate members of the public, the Malaysian Conservation Alliance for Tigers (MYCAT) launched the Citizen Action for Tigers (CAT) Walk.   p 
 p CAT Walk-ers assist forest rangers in regular anti-poaching patrols of the Sungai Yu River Wildlife Corridor. Sungai Yu connects Taman Negara National Park and the Titiwangsa Mountains, two of the largest tiger habitats in Malaysia. With WRS’s support, 68 CAT Walks covering 421km have been conducted.  p 
 p Besides removing snares and baits, CAT Walk-ers report encroachment by trespassers and poaching. The CAT Walks have dramatically decreased the number of snares found, indicating the success of the initiative. More than 1,000 volunteers from 33 countries, including Singapore, have gone on the CAT Walks.   p 
 p Five of our keepers have also participated in the ‘Realm of the Tiger’ programme, MYCAT’s expanded programme for the zoo community. Inspired by their trip, they have been sharing their experience with guests to raise awareness of the tigers’ plight. You, too, can help support tiger conservation. br 
  p 
 p The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is widely recognized as the most comprehensive, objective global approach for evaluating the conservation status of plant and animal species.  p 
 p At relatively low risk of extinction  p 
 p Likely to become vulnerable in the near future  p 
 p At high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At very high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At extremely high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p Survives only in captivity  p 
 p No surviving individuals in the wild or in captivity  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p 80 Mandai Lake Road
Singapore 729826   p 
 p class="copy"  span © Copyright 2018, Wildlife Reserves Singapore Group. All rights reserved.  span   p 
