 p The Black Jaguar-White Tiger™ Foundation is a tax exempt 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization registered under the laws of the United States and Mexico.  p 
 p The Foundation’s mission is about changing people’s perception about all Animals. We intend to help people fall in Love once again with their Planet.  p 
 p Black Jaguar-White Tiger™ is rooted in the belief that by raising awareness, one can start a revolution; In this case, a revolution about Love and Respect for all living beings.  p 
 p Jacques Cousteau used to say that one only protects what one Loves. And we have based our whole philosophy on this quote.  p 
 p The Black Jaguar-White Tiger™ Foundation is about changing people’s perception about our Planet and all Animals.  p 
 p We are a Foundation that thinks outside the box.  p 
 p We have found out that while in captivity, the more Animals living together in a group, the happier they are, regardless of the species.  p 
 p WE DO NOT BREED our rescued Animals if we are not going to be able to re-introduce them into their natural habitat. However, some of the felines we have rescued arrived pregnant to us, so we have had cubs born in the Sanctuary, and in other cases, we have also rescued newborn felines that were meant to be sell or used for entertainment.  p 
 p The Black Jaguar-White Tiger™ Foundation is a non-profit organization established both in Mexico and the United States  p 
 p In 2015, Mexico´s General Wildlife Law and the General Law of Ecological Balance and Protection of the Environment were modified in order to prohibit the use of wild animals in circuses for entertainment and for private collections.- Hipervinculo a Leyes-  p 
 p Since then, we have worked in close collaboration with the Mexican Government to rescue and provide a home to hundreds of felines.  p 
 p We currently host more than 500 rescued Animals that prior to their arrival lived a caged life at the circus or were acquired as pets and lived in improper conditions.  p 
 p In order to do so, we hold the Mexican permits granted by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources for the premises or facilities that manage wildlife in a confined way outside their natural habitat.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  strong Click on the images to enlarge  strong   p 
 p TBA  p 
 p style="text-align: right;" Copyright 2018 Black Jaguar-White Tiger Foundation | All Rights Reserved  p 
 p style="text-align: right;" Website by  a href="https:  pitchperfectcreative.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Pitch Perfect Creative  a   p 
