 p Just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, you are not the only one who is looking to upgrade the fashion of your homes this 2019. As this New Year’s son rose, the designers have fashioned some really classic designs that can upgrade your home design 2019. These new designs have become trends that everyone is upgrading their houses with. So, to keep it to the point concerning what’s IN and OUT, let’s get into the dynamics of these new designs and help you redesign your home and make it newer than ever.  p 
 p  em Textured and graphical artistic wallpapers are IN, and the accent walls for Bedroom are so OUT.  em  br 
2019 is the time to be bold and cross the boundaries of being sophisticated and boring. Add some unique texture to the wallpaper of your bedroom and make it modernistic. Make a good contrast of the wallpaper’s texture with the furniture and the carpet tiles of the room. br 
The signage that you bought from the store? You better store that in the storeroom as it is OUT and colourful and artistic art pieces or simply medium size wall-photographs are IN. br 
Coming to bed, the simple sheets and blanket for your bed are OUT, and nice quality linen and bright velvet clothes are IN.  p 
 p  em As you may have those bully cabinet knobs installed in your kitchen, it is time to pull them OUT, and classic leather handcrafted pulls are IN.  em  br 
As this 2019 is against being simple and plain, it is more like making changes and the big ones. The hand-crafted, embellished, and the maximalist designer stuff is on the 2019 home trends list. br 
As you have noticed in the latest TV cooking shows, the plain colour palette is so OUT as the colourful curations are the new trend of 2019.For a really long time, it has been a culture to keep kitchens simply designed and so minimalistic to be precise. Well folks, welcome to 2019, as this year is just about making colourful changes. You have to stop using the same metals for kitchen accessories, cutlery, and furniture material and start using mixed metal for diversity.  p 
 p This 2019 just stop buying furniture from the same furniture store and of the same style and colour tone as well. Mixing and contrasting furniture and accessories in your living room will make it look a lot more modern and appealing to look at. Never be afraid to try your own contrast sense and make your living room as diverse as possible. Make your living room look charming as this will reflect your personality and you can impress the hell out of your friends and family as they visit your home. The living room is the place where most of your social stuff is done, so make it the most colourful, 2019 modern and a crazy room of your home.  p 
 p Also, the plain ceiling is so OUT and colourfully designed ceiling are IN. Art deco trend is in and is surely not going away for many years in the future; it is time you grab these trends and give colours to your home.  p 
 p Copyright© 2019 -  span class="input-group-addon" tribunkumparan.online  span   p 
