 p class="css-97enoo e1wiw3jv0" Are there many subspecies of tiger, or only two? A correct accounting is the only way to preserve what is left of the animal’s genetic diversity, some scientists say.  p 
 p class="css-2trrvf"  span class="css-1f9pvn2 science" A South China tiger, a subspecies that only survives in captivity.  span  span itemprop="copyrightHolder" class="emkp2hg2 css-1nwzsjy e1z0qqy90"  span class="css-1ly73wi e1tej78p0" Credit  span  span  span class="css-1dv1kvn" Credit  span  span Francois Savigny Minden Pictures  span   span   span   p 
 p Supported by  p 
 p class="css-16vrk19 e1jsehar1" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http:  schema.org Person" itemid="" By !-- --   span class="css-1baulvz" itemprop="name" Rachel Nuwer  span   p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Fewer than 4,000 tigers remain in the wild. New research aims to give conservationists an improved understanding of their genetics in order to help save them.   p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" After years of debate, scientists report in the journal Current Biology that tigers  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.cell.com current-biology fulltext S0960-9822(18)31214-4" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" comprise six  a  unique subspecies. One of those subspecies, the South China tiger, survives only in captivity.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “The results presented in this paper are important because they contradict the currently accepted international conservation classifications for tigers,” said Uma Ramakrishnan, a molecular ecologist at the National Center for Biological Sciences in Bangalore, India, who was not involved in the study.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" A system  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http:  advances.sciencemag.org content 1 5 e1400175" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" recently proposed  a  by some scientists that would classify the world’s tigers into two subspecies would harm the world’s remaining tigers rather than benefit them, said Shu-Jin Luo, a geneticist at Peking University who led the study. Preserving what is left of tigers’ genetic diversity will require ensuring that all remaining subspecies are taken into account, she and her co-authors argue.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “If you think that all tigers are genetically homogeneous, you might say if you lose the Amur tiger, you still have the Bengal tiger — and that’s O.K. because they’re very similar,” Dr. Luo said. “But that’s not O.K., because now we know that tigers are not all alike.”  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Dr. Luo hopes that their new findings put to rest a decade-long debate over whether tigers constitute six, five or two subspecies. In 2004, she and her colleagues first presented research that tigers constitute six living subspecies, based on partial genomic analyses. But other researchers soon challenged the findings.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The latest analysis confirmed six living subspecies:  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2018 09 08 world asia india-tiger-hunt.html?module=inline" title="" Bengal  a , Amur, South China,  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2017 12 05 science sumatran-tigers.html?module=inline" title="" Sumatran  a , Indochinese and Malayan. Scientists also believe that three additional subspecies — Caspian,  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2017 09 15 world asia indonesia-tiger-species.html?module=inline" title="" Javan  a  and Bali tigers, described in the 1930s — already have been lost to extinction.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0"  strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10"  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0" [  em   strong  strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10"  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http:  on.fb.me 1paTQ1h" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank"  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0" Like the Science Times page on Facebook.  em   a   strong  strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10"  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0"    em   strong  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0" | Sign up for the   em  strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10"  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http:  nyti.ms 1MbHaRU" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank"  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0" Science Times newsletter.  em   a   strong  strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10"  em class="css-2fg4z9 e1gzwzxm0" ]  em   strong   p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The distinction between species and subspecies is sometimes hazy. Although two different subspecies can mate and produce viable offspring, subspecies often are separated by distinct habitats, different environmental adaptations and unique genetic and morphological features. Subspecies, many researchers believe, are evolution’s intermediary  !-- -- steppingstones !-- --  on the path to fully formed species.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Armed with more affordable and robust genomic technologies, Dr. Luo and her colleagues strengthened their original findings. Previously, just one complete tiger genome had been sequenced. In the new study, the researchers undertook  !-- -- whole-genome !-- --  sequence analysis of 32 preserved wild tiger specimens from around the world. A statistical analysis of 1.8 million DNA variants across the specimen tigers’ genomes finalized the breakdown into six distinct subspecies.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “While genomic methods have been applied extensively to humans and model organisms, their use to study endangered species remains under-exploited,” Dr. Ramakrishnan said.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The analysis also offered a window into the evolutionary history of tigers. Fossil evidence indicates that the predator evolved roughly two million years ago in Asia. The new study revealed that tiger subspecies last shared a common ancestor relatively recently, about 110,000 years ago, likely in modern-day Southeast Asia and southern China. As the climate changed, tigers expanded west to India, north to China and Siberia and south to Indonesia and Malaysia.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" In the tens of thousands of years since, tigers have evolved into subspecies with distinct genomic signatures. For example, the researchers found that Sumatran tigers — which live on a single island in Indonesia, and were the first to diverge from the other subspecies — possess genes associated with smaller body sizes relative to most tigers on the mainland. This lines up with morphological observations and ecological expectations, Dr. Luo said.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “In India and Siberia, tigers prey on large ungulates, but in Sumatra, they rely more on wild boar and smaller deer,” she said. “It makes sense that smaller prey would exert selection pressure for smaller tigers.”  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" An estimated 100,000 tigers roamed Asia’s forests, swamps and grasslands a century ago. But poaching, habitat destruction and retaliatory killings have sent their numbers spiraling downward; today more tigers  a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2017 06 05 science animal-farms-southeast-asia-endangered-animals.html?module=inline" title="" survive in captivity  a  than in the wild. Tigers have already disappeared from Cambodia and Vietnam, and only a few stray, isolated individuals are thought to survive in the wild in Laos and China.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Ullas Karanth, the Asia director of science for the Wildlife Conservation Society, praised the new study for advancing the scientific understanding of tiger genetics, but he cast doubt on the feasibility of saving all six subspecies. “The numbers in all but the Indian and Russian subspecies are just too small,” he said.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" Tiger populations with a reasonable prospect of survival currently occupy only about 10 percent of their potential habitat, and the pressures are only mounting, Dr. Karanth said. Rather than focus on genetics, efforts to maintain and recover tigers should give priority to the locations where conservations seems most realistic and promising, he said.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" The study authors argue, however, that saving tigers from extinction also entails saving their genetic diversity.  p 
 p class="css-1ygdjhk evys1bk0" “To preserve such genomic signatures is to preserve evolutionary uniqueness that tigers have accumulated over thousands of years,” Dr. Luo said. “We need to respect this uniqueness by maximizing our efforts for all tiger subspecies.”  p 
 p Advertisement  p 
