 p class="partial_entry"  span class="fullText " It was great to see the tigers at the habitat. It was hot this day so the animals were sleeping, but one white tiger looked like he was posing for the camera. Also enjoyed seeing the leopard. I recommend early evening when it's not so hot; the tigers may be more active.  span   p 
 p class="partial_entry" We really loved seeing the dolphins and tigers but some of them really don't have enough room in their cages, which is the reason for me giving a 3 instead of a 5. I left a little deflated because as much as I loved it, I just felt so sorry for the animals.   p 
 p class="partial_entry" You are up close and personal. First advice would be take your time. There isn't an over abundance to see so if you hurry through it will feel like a waste of money.  br It was nice to see the trainers working with the dolphins and explaining things about them. This occurs regularly throughout the day. Although when my 7 year old asked a question relevant to his age, the trainer wasn't very friendly. Almost acted as if it was a waste of time.  br For the most part, with the one exception, the staff was friendly. Animal habitats were very clean.  br   p 
 p class="partial_entry" The Tigers, lions, leopards are a wonderful site. Extremely well cared for. br The animals are changed regularly through the day. br We found the staff superb, informative and polite br The children visiting seemed delighted how close they could get to to  br the animals. br We were lucky to have a chat and get a photo taken with Seigfried. br Lovely gentleman with time for everyone. Go visit the children will love it and learn a lot about animals .  p 
 p class="partial_entry" We got free tickets from the timeshare experience!!  br  br It was a pleasant day but we had done everything within an hour, I think we made it last a couple of hours. We seen the new baby dolphin and got to see them getting fed and interacting which was nice.   p 
 p class="partial_entry" Went there with my wife and kids. When we arrive we were amazed how close we could get to the dolphin! It was hot so only few people were there. We were able to sit on the edge of the pool with dolphins swimming at 3' from us! Same thing with tigers and lions. It is not a big zoo, the word gardens is good. You need to sit and look at animals to enjoy your visit.   p 
