 p class="post-author" Posted by  span Meaghan Thomas  span , on  span Mar 02 2016  span   p 
 p Happy World Wildlife Day! We're celebrating by honoring 12 special animals that are national symbols around the world.   p 
 p See if any of these animals are near you and learn more about why they are symbolic in your country. Conservation is important in protecting many different animal species. Wildlife play an essential role in balancing the environment.   p 
 p MyUS is a leading international shipping and package consolidation company.  p 
 p Want to buy products from the United States but your favorite stores won't ship internationally? MyUS has you covered.   p 
 p Join to instantly receive a US shipping address. Use that as the shipping address next time you shop an American website, and we'll get your package delivered internationally to you fast and for a low rate.  a href=" benefits " Learn more today!  a   p 
 p Celebrate World Wildlife Day on 3 March by learning more about the animals that represent different nations around the globe! MyUS, a leading global package consolidator and shipping company, ships to countries all over the world and offers a look at the most popular, and unusual, creatures they have chosen as their symbols.   p 
 p The King of the Beasts is the most popular national animal. With the loudest roar of all the big cats, lions can be header a distance of 8km (5 miles). This regal feline proudly represents:  p 
 p This majestic bird of prey is the National animal of:  p 
 p These raptor are extremely fast and can dive after prey at speeds of more than 241 km (150 miles) per hour.  p 
 p The Arabian Oryx is well suited to its hard desert environment, with a white coat to reflect the sun's rays and wide hooves for walking on sand. It's no wonder the following countries all claim this adaptable antelope as their official animal:  p 
 p As the largest member of the felid (cat) family, a Siberian tiger can eat up to 88 pounds of meat at one time, and is the symbol of:  p 
 p Malaysia claims the smaller, but still impressive, Malayan Tiger as its national animal.  p 
 p While appearing graceful and placid, swans have voracious appetites and can be quit aggresive. It's the national symbol of"  p 
 p With its hoarse voice, its not really mute, and its wingbeats can be heard as far as a mile away.  p 
 p This flightless bird is only found in the country that proudly claims it as its national animal -  a href=" nz " New Zealand  a . The kiwi is nocturnal, with hair-like feathers and a keen sense of smell. Despite its small size, a kiwi can outrun a human on its four-toed feet.   p 
 p This dolphin lives in freshwater lakes and rivers in one of the world's most densely populated areas. This unusual mammal is nicknamed the "Susu" because of the sound it makes when coming to the surface for air. It's the national symbol of  a href=" in " India  a .   p 
 p Most closely related to the giraffe, the solitary okapi is found only in the  a href=" cd " Democratic Republic of the Congo  a , which gave it national status. So little was known about the Congo's shy national animal that it was not recognized as a species until the 20th century.   p 
 p The second-largest bird in the world (next to the ostrich) the emu is the symbol of its homeland -  a href=" au " Australia  a . Designed for life on the arid outback, emus have a specialized respiratory system that allows them to cool themselves and conserve water.   p 
 p The national animal of  a href=" bz " Belize  a  is also the largest indigenous mammal in Central America. This rarely-seen primitive ancestor of rhinos and horses has changed very little in the last 35 million years.  p 
 p Closely related to elephants, the national animal of  a href=" pg " Papua New Guinea  a  looks much more like its other kin, the manatee. These enormous vegetarians are believed to be the inspiration for ancient tales of mermaids.   p 
 p Extinct since 1681, the dodo is the symbol of the island of  a href=" mu " Mauritius  a , where it once lived. Little is known about this flightless bird that evolved and thrived in relative isolation until the arrival of humans and other bird-eating mammals.   p 
 p  em MyUS wishes you a happy, eco-friendly World WildLife Day!  em   p 
 p class="post-date" Mar 08 2019  p 
 p class="post-date" Mar 08 2019  p 
 p class="post-date" Mar 08 2019  p 
 p class="post-date" Mar 08 2019  p 
 p itemprop="streetAddress" 
            4299 Express Lane br 
             span itemprop="addressLocality" Sarasota  span , span itemprop="addressRegion"  FL  span   span itemprop="postalCode" 34249  span   span itemprop="addressCountry" USA  span  br 
             a itemprop="url" class="link-phone" href="tel:19412274444" Phone:  span itemprop="telephone" class="link" 1.941.227.4444  span   a  br 
             a itemprop="url" class="link-fax" href="tel:19418272985" Fax:  span itemprop="telephone" class="link" 1.941.827.2985  span   a 
            p 
 p class="local-timestamp" 
                 span Local Time:   span 
                 span id="timestamp"   span 
              p 
 p class="cookies" We use cookies to offer better online experiences. By visiting and using MyUS.com, you consent to our use of cookies. Learn about your options, rights and more by reading our  a class="link" itemprop="url" href=" terms-conditions-privacy "  span itemprop="name" Terms &amp; Conditions and Privacy Policy  span   a .  p 
