 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p  strong Meet the mob in their brand new exhibit open now!   strong   p 
 p Descend from the treetops of  em Koala Forest  em  into  em Kangaroo Country  em . Kangaroos come in all shapes and sizes and their unique ability to hop sets them apart from most animals on earth. Learn more about this fascinating species at our brand new Kangaroo Keeper Talk at 11.30am every day.  p 
 p  em Kangaroo Country   em offers loads of fun extras for the kids – explore the wombat burrow-style entry to  em The Pouch House   em where they can follow the  em Jelly Bean Joey Journey  em , take a photo in the pouch of a giant kangaroo and hop along to  em Skippy’s Milk Bar  em  where they’ll learn that kangaroos can raise three different aged joeys at once!  p 
 p  em Kangaroo Country  em  completes Healesville Sanctuary’s iconic Australia precinct which showcases Australia’s most loved species from Koalas to Kangaroos, Echidnas and more!  p 
 p  a class="button" href="https:  tickets.zoo.org.au #healesville" Buy tickets to Healesville Sanctuary  a   p 
 p Our Red Kangaroos are very popular with visitors to the Sanctuary, especially tourists from overseas who have never seen a kangaroo up close.  p 
 p Our Kangaroo Island Kangaroos are a friendly bunch. They have their own little social groups that they regularly hang out with, and they’re very friendly with visitors and keepers.   p 
 p Say hello to our Tree Kangaroos, we call them “roos with a view” - you’ve never seen anything like them. These tree-top dwelling roos have magnificent tails which help them balance while jumping through the rainforest canopy.  p 
 p Kangaroo Country is included with general admission to Healesville Sanctuary and kids under 16 visit free on weekends, Victorian government public and school holidays.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
