 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" A  span  wildlife expert has explained the behaviour of a kangaroo who got a dog in a headlock in the now infamous video that saw the dog's owner punch the marsupial.  p 
 p Greig Tonkins, an employee at Taronga Western Plains Zoo, ran towards an aggressive kangaroo that had his dog Max in a headlock during the incident filmed in June and which went viral this week.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk news 2016 12 05 hunter-punches-kangaroo-head-save-dogs-life-full-story " Seconds after the kangaroo released the dog from a headlock, Mr Tonkins punched it in the face  a .  p 
 p The man’s actions have split opinion on social media and many have tried assessing whether the dog was in any danger and his owner's intervention necessary or acceptable.  p 
 p "This was a really interesting scenario," marsupial expert Dr Mark Eldridge from the Australian Museum told news.com.au.  p 
 p "When kangaroos fight they do tend to wrestle and kick, but they would normally view dogs and dingoes as predators and usually flee from them.  p 
 p "But in this case, maybe the dog surprised the roo (kangaroo) and got too close. And in turn, the kangaroo defended itself instead of running away, and did so by getting the dog in a headlock."  p 
 p "The male is clearly highly stressed and agitated, his forearms are very wet from him licking himself to cool down," Dr Eldridge told the Australian news website, adding that the male also appeared to be sexually aroused.  p 
 p "The kangaroo didn’t seem to be biting the dog, I think he was pretty confused," Dr Eldridge said. "Maybe the kangaroo was just having a hold of the dog and didn’t know what to do next, because normally it would use his legs to kick in a fight."  p 
 p "Male kangaroos will try scratch and wrestle before sometimes putting an opponent in a headlock. It’s a tactic when bucks fight.  p 
 p "The kangaroo could’ve potentially choked the dog, but it was wearing armour so that may have protected it from the full force."  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" T  span he episode happened during a hunting trip organised for a boy with cancer, who recently passed away, a friend of Mr Tonkins explained to  a href="http:  www.news.com.au lifestyle home pets viral-kangaroo-video-is-more-than-meets-the-eye news-story 5cc6c08c2de68f0a0906b6eee5eeec20" news.com.au  a .  p 
 p "This hunting trip was put together for a sick young man called Kailem who passed away from cancer last week," Matthew Amor, who organised the trip, explained.  p 
 p “Basically Kailem wanted to catch a boar … so a few of us got together to take him out, and another mate filmed more than an hour of video to put together as a DVD for Kailem and his family of the trip.”  p 
 p Mr Amor told the  a href="http:  www.dailytelegraph.com.au news nsw man-who-went-viral-for-boxing-a-kangaroo-a-zookeeper-for-taronga-western-plains-zoo news-story 979eddb6bde5bc239518830ce54f207c" Sydney Daily Telegraph  a  that the dog got away unscathed thanks to a chest plate, worn as a protection from boar tusks.  p 
 p  span class="m_first-letter m_first-letter--flagged" D  span r Eldridge said Mr Tonkins was probably the luckiest to escape unscathed from the incident, as the kangaroo chose to flee rather than fight.  p 
 p "Male kangaroos have very big forearms and are very strong,”"he said. "The man [Greig Tonkins] was very lucky he didn’t get kicked. Before kangaroos fight, they usually size each other up. If one doesn’t back down, they will get into an aggressive encounter.  p 
 p "I think the kangaroo was still in the sizing up stage when he was hit with the punch, and so the man was lucky the roo decided to call it quits instead of using his leg which cause a lot of damage."  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk news 2016 12 06 zoo-defends-employee-punched-kangaroo-save-dog "  span class="m_first-letter" T  span aronga Western Plains Zoo has released a statement about the incident on Tuesday  a  in which it described Mr Tonkins as an "experienced" and "valued member of staff".  p 
 p "We confirm that there is no suggestion of Mr Tonkins’ employment at Taronga Western Plains Zoo ending as a result of this event," the New South Wales zoo said in the statement.  p 
 p "However, the highest standards of animal welfare and care are a core value of Taronga and one that we expect our staff to uphold in all their interactions with wildlife and we continue to work with Mr Tonkins on his conduct in regards to this incident."  p 
 p © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019  p 
 p We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.  p 
 p We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.  p 
 p Thank you for your support.  p 
 p class="bold" Need help?  p 
 p Visit our  a href="https:  www.telegraph.co.uk go adblocking " class="help" adblocking instructions  a 
page.  p 
