 p Looking for related documents? br 
	 a href=" industry-guidance eng 1374161650885 1374161737236?gp=1&amp;gc=30&amp;ga=35#gdr_results" class="alert-link" 
	Search for related documents in the Guidance Document Repository  a   p 
 p class="text-right"  strong  abbr title="Territorial Animal Health Division" TAHD  abbr - abbr lang="fr" title="Division de la santé des animaux terrestres" DSAT  abbr - abbr title="import export" IE  abbr -2001-1-2 br  January 8, 2013  strong   p 
 p  strong Amendments:  strong  This policy replaces all previous policies on this subject. br  strong Industry Notice:  strong   a href=" animals terrestrial-animals imports policies animal-products-and-by-products 2001-01 hunting-trophies eng 1378757597114 1378757670503" Clarification about importing hunting trophies  a   p 
 p This policy deals with the importation of integumentary tissues of mammals and avian species. The importation of integumentary tissues from reptiles and amphibians is not regulated by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA).  p 
 p This policy relates to Animal Import Export Division import requirements only and does not remove any obligations from the Canadian importer to comply with the import requirements of other  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  programs and or other federal, provincial, or municipal government departments. Integumentary tissues imported as pet chews and treats are regulated under the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr 's Animal Health Import Requirements for Rendered and Inedible Products and the directive, Import of Pet Food, Treats and Chews Containing Animal Products and By-Products.  p 
 p The importation of many commodities in this policy requires approval from the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The Canadian Wildlife Service of Environment Canada implements and administers  abbr title="Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora" CITES  abbr  for the federal government of Canada. Importers are therefore strongly encouraged to contact  a href="http:  www.ec.gc.ca cites default.asp?lang=En&amp;n=1BC82E16-1" title="Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora" CITES  a  prior to importation to ensure that trade in each commodity is permitted.  p 
 p Hides and skins are commonly traded as wet salted (also termed "green salted hides"), dry salted, pickled, air dried, or in the blue (or wet blue). Several of these preparation procedures may decrease the pathogen load on hides and skins, but do not necessarily eliminate all microorganisms. In the past, there has been much confusion about how to handle these imported tissues. Certificates of disinfection produced in many foreign countries have been shown to be widely fraudulent. As a result, a system of post-arrival disinfection has been created for the handling of these items when they are not clean or when they originate from non-designated countries.  p 
 p Trophies containing skulls and horns originating from mature animals of the  span lang="la" Bos taurus  span  or  span lang="la" Bos indicus  span  species are considered specified risk material, if the originating country is of controlled or undetermined risk for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), as defined by the  a href="http:  www.oie.int eng en_index.htm" rel="external" World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE)  a . For this reason, trophies originating from these countries from animals of these species require an import permit for import into Canada.  p 
 p Appendix 1 provides the Guidelines for Approval of Disinfection Premises for Hides, Skins, and Trophies Imported Into Canada.  p 
 p The Regulations regarding the importation of integumentary tissues are found in section 42 of Part  abbr title="4" IV  abbr  of the  a href=" english reg jredirect2.shtml?heasanr" Health of Animals Regulations  a . Other sections of Part  abbr title="4" IV  abbr , notably sections 40 and 41, also relate to the importation of integumentary tissues, among other animal by-products, as well as Part  abbr title="13" XIII  abbr , section 160.  p 
 p The Health of Animals Regulations, section 42, states the following:  p 
 p  strong Raw Wool, Hair or Bristles, Hide or Skin  strong   p 
 p A person may import into Canada raw wool, hair or bristles or an untanned hide or skin from a country or a part of a country not referred to in section 41 if  p 
 p class="mrgn-lft-sm"  abbr title="Statutory Orders and Regulations" SOR  abbr  97-85,  abbr title="section" s.  abbr  34;  abbr title="Statutory Orders and Regulations" SOR  abbr  97-478,  abbr title="section" s.  abbr  10(E).  p 
 p  strong Bristles ( span lang="fr" Soies  span ):  strong  Stiff hairs commonly found in pigs, often used to make brooms and brushes.  p 
 p  strong  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  Seal ( span lang="fr" Sceau de l' abbr title="Agence canadienne d'inspection des aliments" ACIA  abbr   span ):  strong  A  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  control tool used in containers and conveyances to prevent deliberate or accidental opening of a conveyance that is used for the international transport of animals, or animal products and by-products during the transportation period. A seal includes any tamper-evident means of securing a shipment, including lead seals or other tamper-evident materials, but does not include tape, either plastic or adhesive.  p 
 p  strong Designated country or zone ( span lang="fr" Zone ou pays désigné  span ):  strong  A country or zone determined by the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  to be free of reportable and immediately notifiable diseases that either affect or are transmitted by the species of origin of the animal, animal product, or by-product to be imported into Canada.  strong Please note  strong  that the recognition of disease freedom by the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  is not solely dependent on  abbr title="World Organisation for Animal Health" OIE  abbr  status or country self-determination. The  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  uses risk assessment methodology to determine whether a hazard is present in a country and to evaluate the risk of transmission of that hazard, resulting from the importation of animals, animal products or by-products.  p 
 p class="mrgn-lft-xl"  strong Please note  strong  that Canada accepts  abbr title="World Organisation for Animal Health" OIE  abbr  country classification for  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr  risk categorization; therefore, the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  no longer carries out independent assessment regarding a country's  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr  status. Refer to the  a href="http:  www.oie.int eng en_index.htm" rel="external"  abbr title="World Organisation for Animal Health" OIE  abbr  website  a  for  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr  categorization of countries.  p 
 p  strong Dry (or green) salted hides or skins ( span lang="fr" Cuirs ou peaux séchés [ou verts] salés  span ):  strong  Skins that have been rubbed on the flesh surface with dry salt and left to dry. At the end of the process, the hides and skins are shaken of the salt and folded for consignment.  p 
 p  strong Feathers ( span lang="fr" Plumes  span ):  strong  Unique to birds, feathers form the distinctive component structure of the outer covering and flight surfaces of all modern birds.  p 
 p  strong Fully mounted taxidermy specimens, including trophies, teeth, skulls, horns, and antler chandeliers ( span lang="fr" Animaux entièrement empaillées, y compris les trophées, les dents, les crânes, les cornes et les lustres faits de bois de cervidé  span ):  strong  A hunting trophy is an item prepared from the body of a game animal killed by a hunter and kept as a souvenir of the successful hunting or fishing expedition. Often, the heads or entire bodies are processed by a taxidermist, although sometimes other body parts, such as teeth, tusks, or antlers, are prepared as a trophy. Polyurethane or plastic mannequins are used to support the skins and horns of the hunted animals. The skins are fully prepared before placement in the mannequin for completion of taxidermy procedures.  p 
 p  strong Hard dried skins ( span lang="fr" Peaux séchées dures  span ):  strong  Skins that have been air-dried.  p 
 p  strong Integumentary tissues ( span lang="fr" Tissus tégumentaires  span ):  strong  A network of features that forms the covering of an organism. The integument delimits the body of the organism, separating it from the environment and protecting it from foreign matter. At the same time, it provides communication with the outside, enabling an organism to live in a particular environment.  p 
 p  strong Leak-proof containers ( span lang="fr" Containers étanches  span ):  strong  For the purposes of this directive, defined as fully enclosed sealable shipping containers made of impervious materials (hard plastic or metal, never wood) and lined with a plastic liner of at least 6- abbr title="millimetres" mm  abbr  thickness to prevent leakage. Plastic liners are available from various Canadian suppliers, including, but not limited to, the following:  p 
 p Shipments with leaking contents, or that are not in a fully enclosed sealable metal shipping container, are refused entry and returned to the country of origin. For feathers or wool, a plastic liner should be used, but some leniency may be possible, as long as there is no leakage or spillage of the contents.  p 
 p  strong Liming ( span lang="fr" Chaulage  span ):  strong  A procedure that results in the "un-hairing" of hides and skins by applying a strong alkaline solution to the skin.  p 
 p  strong Non-designated countries or zones ( span lang="fr" Zones ou pays non désignés  span ):  strong  Countries or zones not determined by the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  to be free of reportable or immediately notifiable diseases that either affect or are transmitted by the species of origin of the animal, animal product or by-product to be imported into Canada.  p 
 p  strong Pickled skins (brining) ( span lang="fr" Peaux picklées [saumurage]  span ):  strong  An acid bath treatment in which skins are prepared for tanning. This is an ideal method for treatment of skins for international transportation.  p 
 p  strong Specified risk material (SRM) ( span lang="fr" Matière à risque spécifiée [MRS]  span ):  strong The skull, brain, trigeminal ganglia, eyes, tonsils, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia of cattle aged 30 months or older, and the distal ileum of cattle of all ages from cattle originating in countries classified by the  abbr title="World Organisation for Animal Health" OIE  abbr  as being of undetermined or controlled risk for  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr .  p 
 p  strong Tanning ( span lang="fr" Tannage  span ):  strong  A preservation process, usually a chemical treatment, which converts the otherwise perishable skin to a stable and non-decaying material.  p 
 p  strong Trophies ( span lang="fr" Trophées  span ):  strong  Comprises the head, antlers (with or without skins), or other body parts of animals that will be preserved for display by taxidermy.  p 
 p  strong Wet blue hides ( span lang="fr" Cuirs bleus humides  span ):  strong  Usually, the phrase "in the blue" or wet blue is applied to hides or skins that have been chrome-tanned.  p 
 p  strong Wet green hides ( span lang="fr" Cuirs verts humides  span ):  strong  Hides that have been submitted to a process of green salting or wet salting. Wet green hides contain approximately 50% of the original weight of the green hide and are considered to be cured and ready to be shipped.  p 
 p  strong Wet-salting (see wet green hides) ( span lang="fr" Salage humide [voir cuirs verts humides]  span )  strong : A method of curing hides and skins for storage and or transportation. After salting, the hides are left in a pile. When ready for shipment they are "taken up," the salt is knocked off, and the hides are then bundled and tied (also "wet green salting").  p 
 p  strong Wool ( span lang="fr" Laine  span ):  strong  The fibre that grows on the body of most sheep. It replenishes itself each time the sheep is sheared and continues to grow throughout the sheep's lifetime. Wool is the product for which sheep are best known. Wool is widely used in clothing, from knitwear such as socks and sweaters to cloth used for suits and costumes.  p 
 p Some commonly used wool terms:  p 
 p Hides, skins, stuffed animals, trophies, wool, and feathers are known to transmit serious animal diseases, such as the following:  p 
 p  strong Bovines ( span lang="fr" Bovins  span )  strong : Foot-and-mouth disease, lumpy skin disease, anthrax.  p 
 p  strong Sheep ( span lang="fr" Moutons  span )  strong : Foot-and-mouth disease, sheep and goat pox, peste des petits ruminants, anthrax.  p 
 p  strong Goats ( span lang="fr" Chèvres  span )  strong : Foot-and-mouth disease, sheep and goat pox, peste des petits ruminants, anthrax.  p 
 p  strong Swine ( span lang="fr" Porcs  span )  strong : Classical swine fever, African swine fever, foot-and-mouth disease, swine vesicular disease, anthrax.  p 
 p  strong Avian ( span lang="fr" Oiseaux  span ):  strong  Newcastle disease, highly pathogenic avian influenza.  p 
 p  strong Equine ( span lang="fr" Équins  span )  strong : Glanders, anthrax.  p 
 p  strong Rabbits ( span lang="fr" Lapins  span ):  strong  Rabbit haemorrhagic disease  p 
 p There are no restrictions on products imported from the  abbr title="United States" U.S.  abbr , and these will be released by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). For products from countries other than the  abbr title="United States" U.S.  abbr , all commodities must be inspected at the first port of importation. Regardless of the species of animal or type of material imported, if on first inspection any specimen is found dirty or contaminated with blood, soil, vegetable material, straw, hay, or manure, the item is refused entry and not allowed into Canada under any circumstances.  p 
 p The following products are not regulated under the Health of Animals Regulations:  p 
 p The following items may be released subsequent to visual inspection. They must be free from all feces, blood, dirt, and ectoparasites to qualify for exemption from further restrictions. Items that are found to be soiled, as above, are to be refused entry and either destroyed or returned to the country of origin. Alternatively, they may be directed to an approved premises for disinfection (refer to Item 7):  p 
 p The following items are released with documentation, stating  abbr title="United States" U.S.  abbr  origin acceptable to the  abbr title="Canada Border Services Agency" CBSA  abbr :  p 
 p  strong Also included  strong  in this category are trophies consisting of the whole (or part of the) skull from animals aged 30 months or older of the species  span lang="la" Bos taurus  span  and  span lang="la" Bos indicus  span  –namely, Highland Cattle and Texas Longhorns, or a mix thereof – from the  abbr title="United States" U.S.  abbr , with the following conditions (as the  abbr title="United States" U.S.  abbr  is considered  a href="http:  www.oie.int en animal-health-in-the-world official-disease-status bse list-of-bse-risk-status " rel="external" to be of controlled risk for  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr   a  by the  abbr title="World Organisation for Animal Health" OIE  abbr ):  p 
 p More detailed information on  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  permits may be found at the following  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  links:  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals diseases reportable bse srm cattle-producers-veterinarians permits eng 1369328744776 1369328745776"  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  Permits  a  and  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals diseases reportable bse srm eng 1299870250278 1334278201780" Enhanced Animal Health Protection From  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr   a .  p 
 p For the importation of trophies comprising the whole (or part of the) skull from animals aged 30 months or older of the species  span lang="la" Bos taurus  span  and  span lang="la" Bos indicus  span  –namely, Highland Cattle and Texas Longhorns, or a mix thereof – from all other countries, a case-by-case evaluation is required.  p 
 p The items mentioned above may be released with appropriate certification if they originate in a country or zone designated by Canada as free of diseases in the animals (see the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr 's web page,  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals diseases status-by-country eng 1306648587424 1306649135327" Animal Health Status by Country  a ) from which the product is derived.  p 
 p An official veterinary certificate is required that fully describes the products, stating that  strong they originate in that country or that they were legally imported into that country  strong .  p 
 p The following items must be directed to pre-approved premises for disinfection after arrival. A copy of the premises approval must be provided by the importer to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  at the time of importation. The premises approval must have been carried out not more than 24 months prior to the importation. If no premises has been approved, the items may be retained for a maximum of 30 days awaiting premises approval. If no premises approval has been obtained in 30 days, the items are to be refused entry and either destroyed or returned to the country of origin at the importer's expense:  p 
 p These items must be transported in sealed leak-proof containers from the port-of-landing directly to the pre-approved disinfection premises.  p 
 p For cases in which exported Canadian hides, skins, and integumentary tissues are refused entry into an importing country, these products may be returned to Canada in accordance with the policy,  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals imports policies general 2010-9 eng 1321083659536 1434134370802" Returns and Permit Application Process for Canadian Animals, Semen, Embryos, Animal Products, Animal By-Products and Finished Pet Food  a . For permanent return, importers are required to complete Form CFIA ACIA 5609 – Canadian Animal, Semen, Embryos or Products By-Products Returning, and submit it to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  Area import specialist. An import permit is not required for the permanent return of integumentary tissues; returning containers of integumentary tissues will be handled according to this policy. That is, if the return is from a designated country, the container may be imported with certification only. Conversely, if it is returning from a non-designated country, it will be sent to an approved facility for cleaning and disinfection in accordance with the procedures outlined in Appendix 1.  p 
 p However, in cases where the exporter or importer wishes to return the products for re-export, a Terrestrial Animal Health Import Permit is required. The exporter or importer must apply for this import permit prior to the arrival of the container in Canada. The importer contacts the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  to arrange for the container to be sealed by the  abbr title="Canada Border Services Agency" CBSA  abbr  or the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  upon arrival at the first port of entry, followed by inspection and certification for re-export by the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr . This option is only available in cases where the exporter or importer already has a market for the materials and where the inspection at the port of entry yields favourable results. Exporters or importers wishing to avail themselves of this option must re-export the shipment from Canada within 15 days of its arrival. Otherwise, the products will be ordered removed from Canada, ordered destroyed, or sent for disinfection at an approved facility, at the cost of the exporter or importer.  p 
 p If the inspection reveals irregularities with certification, seals, documentation, or with the shipment per se, the container will be ordered removed from Canada, ordered destroyed, or sealed and sent to an approved disinfection facility at the expense of the exporter or importer.  p 
 p All disinfection premises are to be approved in advance of shipment arrival for disinfection. The premises must be visited by a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector and a report must be prepared, which includes a diagram of the proposed disinfection facility. Photographs may be taken to enhance the report. Forward this report to the regional import specialist for final approval, and retain on file at the district office and Area office. Approvals must be renewed every  span class="nowrap" 24 months  span . A renewal necessitates a visit by a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector.  p 
 p Many unprocessed items entering Canada from non-designated countries require cleaning and disinfection. At the time of import, the premises where the imported material will be disinfected must be listed in a database of approved facilities, and thus available to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector for the material in question to proceed for cleaning and disinfection. The premises approval must have been carried out within the  span class="nowrap" 24 months  span  prior to the importation. If there have been no prior arrangements for a facility to carry out the cleaning and disinfection of the imported materials, the items may be retained for a maximum of  span class="nowrap" 30 days  span , awaiting premises approval. On the 31 sup st  sup  day after importation, the item is refused entry and either destroyed or returned to the country of origin at the importer's expense.  p 
 p Unprocessed items must be transported in leak-proof containers, bearing a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  seal. All items must proceed directly from the port-of-landing to the pre-approved disinfection premises.  p 
 p All disinfection premises must be approved prior to the arrival of shipments for disinfection.  strong Approvals are valid for  span class="nowrap" 24 months  span  and are renewed only with a full visit and records' inspection.  strong   p 
 p The inspector must be satisfied that the method of containment prevents any possible contact between livestock, wildlife, or the public with (presumed contaminated) imported material being stored or processed. Imported materials may be contained in a cooler, a freezer, or a room containing drums or boxes of materials awaiting taxidermy. The refrigerator, the freezer, or the room must be lockable, and the inspector must be satisfied that the locking method used is in proper working order and is effective in creating a barrier between livestock and other animals and the materials in question.  p 
 p Operators must demonstrate to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector that, if protective clothing and equipment is used during the handling and disinfection of imported materials, personal protective equipment (PPE) is used and disinfected properly or disposed of (in the case of disposable materials) in accordance with an approved  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  plan.  p 
 p For example, the disposal of rubber gloves, rubber boots, face masks, and Tyvek coveralls should be discussed with the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr . Options for disinfection are as follows:  p 
 p For disposal purposes after following these disinfection procedures,  abbr title="Personal protective equipment" PPE  abbr  may be disposed of in accordance with municipal disposal procedures (garbage curb pickup or landfill).  p 
 p For clothing, laundering with soap and hot water ensures that pathogenic organisms are destroyed.  p 
 p The facility must make the shipping conveyances ( abbr title="that is to say" i.e.  abbr  leak-proof containers) and the shipping records available to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector for inspection. Imported specimens slated for disinfection are transported in fully enclosed sealable shipping containers lined with a plastic liner of sufficient thickness to prevent leakage. (See definition of leak-proof container.)  p 
 p Shipments with leaking contents or not in fully enclosed sealable shipping containers are refused entry and returned to the country of origin.  p 
 p Transport containers are sealed by  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspectors at the point of entry and Form  span class="nowrap" CFIA ACIA 4206  span  must be issued, indicating the container number, the seal number, a description of the contents, the destination, and the method of transportation.  p 
 p Under no circumstances are containers to proceed inland, unless they are sealed and the appropriate forms are completed. The facility operator may break seals on the transport containers, or may request that the container be opened by a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector, if the inspector is already present in the facility for any reason. All seals opened by the operator must be stored and presented to the district veterinarian at the time of facility re-approval. Once all imported materials are removed from a fully enclosed sealable container, the plastic liners must be disposed of according to a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr -approved disposal plan. The disinfection of the shipping container must also be discussed with the district veterinarian, and the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector must approve a method of disinfection.  p 
 p The following procedures are accepted for the cleaning and disinfection of imported integumentary tissues. However, operators may present other methods of cleaning and disinfection of integumentary tissues to the district veterinarian who is in charge of the facility's approval. The district veterinarian submits the request to  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  Headquarters for evaluation and possibly risk assessment. Once approval is granted, the operator may use the alternative methodology.  p 
 p These procedures must be used for each type of imported material specified.  p 
 p For the inactivation of viruses present in wool and hair for industrial use, use one of the following procedures:  p 
 p Use one of the following procedures:  p 
 p Use one of the following procedures prior to, or as part of, complete taxidermy:  p 
 p Only trained personnel may have access to and work with imported hides and skins in the establishment.  p 
 p Personnel must receive training in the handling of imported materials, as needed.  p 
 p The training must include four components:  p 
 p Specified risk material (SRM) –  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  may be composted on-site or transported to a landfill for burial: Under the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr 's  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals diseases reportable bse srm eng 1299870250278 1334278201780" Enhanced Animal Health Protection From  abbr title="Bovine spongiform encephalopathy" BSE  abbr   a  program outlined in the Health of Animal Regulations, owners or operators of waste management facilities choosing to accept  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  in any form must apply for a permit from the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr . In the case of taxidermists, a salvage permit is required. Permits are issued only after the facility's disposal procedures have been assessed by a  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  inspector and determined to meet all program requirements. Disposal procedures must prove to either destroy or permanently contain all  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  that is generated. Owners may arrange for a licensed  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  collector to collect all non-necessary bovine skulls and parts thereof, so that the  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  can be disposed of at an approved facility. The  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr 's Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy Manual of Procedures provides additional information.  p 
 p In addition to the disposal regulations, a separate permit is required to transport  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  in any form, including cattle carcasses containing  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr .  p 
 p Applications for a  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  permit from the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  must be accompanied by the following:  p 
 p Applications for a  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  permit can be submitted to a  a href=" animals terrestrial-animals offices eng 1300462382369 1300462438912"  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr  Animal Health Office  a . Importers are urged to apply for a permit at least  span class="nowrap" two weeks  span  in advance of the predicted date of import to ensure that the permit is issued on time.  p 
 p Maintain the following in the facility for a minimum of two years: invoices, permits, Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) permits (where applicable), and records on the treatment applied to material, the final destination of imported specimens, importers, purchasers, the state of the specimen (cleanliness, presence of soil, blood, vegetable material), and species of origin.  p 
 p Retain  abbr title="specified risk material" SRM  abbr  permits and all related information, including removal, disposal, and final destination of skull and horn sales, for  span class="nowrap" 10 years  span .  p 
 p Present written standard operating procedures to the  abbr title="Canadian Food Inspection Agency" CFIA  abbr , for each commodity treated, before completing the approval of the facility.  p 
 p Keep inspection records at the district office where the treatment facility is located.  p 
 p  strong Note  strong : Indoor facilities must be provided for container disinfection. Under no circumstances should facilities be approved for disinfection if indoor container disinfection cannot be carried out. Canadian winter conditions preclude proper disinfection outdoors.  p 
 p Advise the importers of these materials that Environment Canada regulations restrict the trade in certain endangered species of animals and their animal products. In some cases, import and export permits are required. For further information, importers should consult  abbr title="Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora" CITES  abbr .  p 
 p  abbr title="Doctor" Dr  abbr . Clarice Lulai Angi br 
Import Export Animal Products and By-Products br 
Animal Import Export Division br 
Animal Health Directorate  p 
 p To qualify for exemption from certification or disinfection requirements, these items must be prepared as follows: The skin must be fully tanned. The hair and feathers must be clean and free from all dirt, feces, blood, and ectoparasites. The specimen must be mounted, using inert material such as polyurethane. (Animal- or plant-origin stuffing materials are not permitted.) Skulls must have been boiled and disinfected with the nasal sinuses drilled. (This may be a judgement call, but if the specimen is otherwise poorly prepared, this may indicate that the skull has been improperly prepared.) Horns should be thoroughly cleaned with the bloody sinuses drilled out, cleaned, and disinfected.  p 
 p class="fn-rtn"  a href="#fn1-rf"  span class="wb-inv" Return to footnote   span 1 span class="wb-inv"  referrer  span   a   p 
