 p During this time of celebration for all things Australian, we are being urged to eat our national emblem in the name of patriotism.  p 
 p Over recent weeks, sporting shooters clubs and the commercial kangaroo industry have launched promotions urging Australians to put kangaroo on the barbecue this Australia Day, as the Sporting Shooters’ Association of Australia says, to “celebrate your country and respect its environment this January 26”  by eating an Australian icon, the kangaroo.  p 
 p National emblem ... kangaroo. cite  span class="ojLwA" Credit:  span Rob Gunstone  cite   p 
 p While these promotions certainly celebrate the kangaroo as a meal option, what they neglect to mention are the very serious welfare and health concerns about the methods used to bring kangaroos from the bush to supermarket shelves.  p 
 p The fact is that, despite popular rhetoric that kangaroos are killed instantly and that the industry is heavily regulated, this could not be further from the truth.  p 
 p On the menu ... kangaroo.  p 
 p There are little to no safeguards to ensure these animals are being killed instantly. Thousands of kangaroos die every year from gunshot wounds to the body, as opposed to a kill shot to the brain, due to inexperienced shooters.  p 
 p In addition, up to 1 million joeys die as collateral damage every year – bashed on the head or decapitated by the shooter or even left to starve after their mothers have been killed.  p 
 p A vivid picture of the types of injuries that occur is painted by the words of a former commercial kangaroo shooter, quoted in  em Kangaroos - Myths and Realities  em , edited by Maryland Wilson and David B. Croft: "The mouth of a kangaroo can be blown off and the kangaroo can escape to die of shock and starvation. Forearms can be blown off, as can ears, eyes and noses. Stomachs can be hit, expelling the contents with the kangaroo still alive. Backbones can be pulverised to an unrecognisable state etc. Hind legs can be shattered with the kangaroo desperately trying to get away on the other or without the use of either. To deny that this goes on is just an exercise in attempting to fool the public."  p 
 p There are also serious health concerns with eating kangaroo meat such as exposure to e. coli and salmonella, which has resulted in countries banning the import of this meat.  p 
 p Driving this meat market is the highly encouraged notion that kangaroos are a pest in their own country. Yet, despite catch cries that populations are exploding, threatening to overrun the country, insufficient data is available on actual kangaroo numbers, population trends or even the sustainability of these animals during extreme events, such as the bushfires and droughts currently ravaging Australian rural areas. In fact, the science shows that the killing of larger, older kangaroos destabilises social structures and can impact on their evolutionary development.  p 
 p In any event, these kangaroos are not killed for environmental protection, nor population control, nor ecological sustainability. This is a straight-up money-making scheme, a reality that shouldn't be confused.  p 
 p There is an urgent need for a Senate inquiry into the management of kangaroos and for new data on kangaroo populations in Australia. Without these actions, the slaughter will continue unabated until kangaroo numbers are decimated.  p 
 p Celebrating all things Australian this Australia Day is a great thing, but promoting the uncontrolled slaughter of Australia's national icon is not.  p 
 p  strong Elise Burgess is senior communications officer at animal protection institute Voiceless.  strong   p 
 p Copyright ©  !-- -- 2019  p 
