 p  strong  span style="font-size:22px" Australia's iconic kangaroos are hunted in the largest commercial slaughter of land-based wildlife on the planet.  span  span style="font-size:22px"  Almost 90 million kangaroos and wallabies have been lawfully killed for commercial purposes in the last 20 years.  span   strong   p 
 p  strong  em Without reservation I support the Australian groups fighting to save the kangaroo. The killing is a disgrace - cruel and entirely profit - motivated. The kangaroo is one of Australia's original inhabitants, deserving both respect and compassion."  em   strong   p 
 p class="text-align-right"  em    em Sir Paul McCartney  p 
 p  strong Among this country's unique indigenous wildlife, nothing shouts "Australia" to the world more than the image of a kangaroo. This beautiful creature has lived in harmony with the Australian people and landscape for countless generations prior to the arrival of Europeans. Kangaroos have had 16 million years of evolution - and 200 years of persecution.  strong   p 
 p  strong There is now abundant evidence to suggest that the outlook for long term survival of our cherished icon has never been bleaker.  strong   p 
 p  strong Sadly, the Australian Government is subsidising the commercial kangaroo industry to promote the use of kangaroos as a readily available source of cheap meat and hides for both domestic and international markets.  strong   p 
 p  strong Those seeking to control kangaroos by killing them as "pests" ignore the diversity of the different kangaroo species and their various roles in Australia's fragile eco- system. There is evidence that some species, such as the red kangaroo, may actually be on the brink of an irreversible population collapse.  strong   p 
 p  strong Unfortunately some environmentalists promote the myth that it is greener to eat kangaroo. Kangaroos in the wild are not an infinite resource. Nobody knows how long they can survive the onslaught of a profit driven industry intent on turning them into "green' consumer products. Once wild populations are depleted beyond the point of no return, we will have to live with the loss of this wrongly persecuted species.  strong   p 
 p  strong Subsistence use of wildlife by indigenous people cannot be compared to the industrial - scale slaughter, for a mass market of people and their pets, plus the ever expanding export trade. Aboriginal culture has a deep spiritual connection to all native wildlife, including kangaroos.  strong   p 
 p  strong It is impossible to ensure kangaroos are killed quickly, with a head shot. Killing occurs at night, often in remote locations and without supervision. Like all "Codes of Practice" the animals are not monitored at the point of kill, but by spot checks of carcasses in refrigerated containers where they are stored.  strong   p 
 p  strong As kangaroos' heads are small targets, and shooters aim from a distance, horrible injuries regularly  strong  strong  occur. Shots can hit their mouths, forearms, ears and noses, for example, and the animals can escape only to die slowly of shock and starvation.  strong   p 
 p  strong The"Code of Practice" offers no protection for the pouch and joeys - at - foot, at all, when their mothers are killed. Tiny hairless in - pouch joeys are killed by being swung against a tree trunk or hit on the head with an iron bar.  strong   p 
 p  strong The "Code of Practice' is silent on the fate of orphaned at - foot - joeys, no longer in the pouch, but still need to suckle from their mothers for up to 6 months. Having no commercial use, these joeys are abandoned to die of starvation or attack by predators.  strong   p 
 p  strong The poor kangaroo has become a convenient scapegoat, to say they are damaging the land is propaganda to promote the widespread slaughter.  strong   p 
 p  strong It is the over grazing by introduced sheep and cattle, maintained at high densities on the same pastures all year round, which is causing serious land degradation.  strong   p 
 p  strong The multi - billion dollar livestock industry is loathe to acknowledge their farming practices are damaging the land, and are in the long term, unsustainable.  strong   p 
 p  strong Eco - tourism, in combination with habitat restoration, has the potential to generate far greater long term benefits to Australia's economy. A nature focused tourism industry that can promote Australia's international reputation as a compassionate and environmentally responsible nation.  strong   p 
 p  strong  em "It's embarrassing for Australia that we eat our own wildlife.... I'm here to tell you it's not right..... Simply do not buy, use or eat kangaroo products."  em   strong   p 
 p class="text-align-right"  strong Steve Irwin  strong   p 
