 p id="skip-link" 
       a href="#content" class="element-invisible element-focusable" Skip navigation  a 
      p 
 p style="overflow: hidden;"  a href="https:  giving.asu.edu OrderApi__campaign?id=a1Y30000000sgEEEAY&amp;site=a0J3000000D2jwmEAB&amp;catalogid=a0V3000000B7zBB" style="display: block; width: 89px; float: right; margin-left: 0.5em;" target="_blank"  img src=" sites default files hps embryo_donate_button2.png" class="hpszen-responsive" alt="Donate to the Embryo Project Encyclopedia"  !--
 a href=" info rss" style="display: block; width: 32px; float: right; margin-left: 0.5em;"  img alt="Follow our RSS feeds to get the latest news, events and recent additions to the Embryo Project Encyclopedia." src=" sites embryo files hps rss_64x64.gif" class="hpszen-responsive"   a 
--   a  a href="http:  www.facebook.com TheEmbryoProjectEncyclopedia" style="display: block; width: 32px; float: right; margin-left: 0.5em;"  img alt="Find the Embryo Project on Facebook." class="hpszen-responsive" src=" sites embryo files hps facebook_64x64.png"   a 

 a href="http:  twitter.com embryoproject" style="display: block; width: 32px; float: right;"  img alt="Follow the Embryo Project on Twitter." class="hpszen-responsive" src=" sites embryo files hps twitter_64x64.png"   a   p 
 p Physician researchers Edgar Rey Sanabria and Héctor
	Martínez-Gómez developed the Kangaroo Mother Program in Bogotá,
	Colombia, in 1979, as an alternative to conventional incubator
	treatment for low birth weight infants. As of 2018, low birth weight
	and its associated complications are the leading causes of infant
	death, especially in developing and underdeveloped countries where
	access to technology and skilled healthcare providers is limited.
	Kangaroo Mother Care is a simple and low cost method for treating
	low birth weight infants. Even though researchers developed the Kangaroo
	Mother Care method for infants born in hospitals with limited resources,
	they demonstrated that the method could be just as effective as
	conventional treatments. Kangaroo Mother Care changed the standard
	of care for low birth weight infants, making life-saving medical
	treatments accessible to thousands of infants in developing and
	undeveloped countries.  p 
 p According to the World Health
	Organization or WHO, complications associated with low birth weight
	cause between 60 and 80 percent of newborn deaths around the world,
	making it the leading cause of infant death as of 2018. A low birth
	weight infant weighs less than 2500 grams or 5.5 pounds, regardless
	of gestational age. Although independent of gestational age, low
	birth weight is often associated with prematurity, or birth that
	occurs before thirty-seven weeks of  a href=" search?text=gestation" title="" class="lexicon-term" gestation  a , because those infants
	do not spend as much time growing inside the pregnant woman’s  a href=" search?text=womb" title="" class="lexicon-term" womb  a .
	Low birth weight infants can experience complications such as the
	inability to maintain body temperature, difficulty breathing,
	difficulty gaining weight, long term problems with brain function,
	and sometimes death as a result of those complications.  p 
 p In
	developing and underdeveloped countries, low birth weight is a
	common problem. Around 15.5 percent of infants born worldwide are
	low birth weight, but almost all of those births occur in developing
	and underdeveloped countries with limited medical professionals and
	modern technology. According to researchers, one potential cause of
	the high death rate associated with low birth weight is limited
	access to conventional care and technology. That technology is
	widely available in countries such as the United States, but much
	less accessible in countries where low birth weight is more common.
	Conventional care for low birth weight typically involves placing
	infants in incubators to regulate their body temperature. It can
	also include other treatments like the use of nasogastric tubes
	which allow nurses to feed infants breast milk through the infants’
	noses directly into their stomachs. Those treatments, although
	effective, are not available to most infants born in developing and
	underdeveloped countries due to the high cost of technology and the
	lack of skilled healthcare providers.  p 
 p During the 1970s,
	researchers began to study the benefits of skin-to-skin contact
	between the mother and her newborn, which was a simple and low cost
	method of newborn care. In the neonatal unit at San Juan de Dios
	Hospital in Bogotá, Colombia, physician researchers Rey Sanabria and
	Martínez-Gómez  treated low birth weight infants. The researchers
	found it difficult to treat those low birth weight infants because
	they lacked technologies and resources that would  keep those
	infants alive. The resources necessary to sustain low birth weight
	infants included incubators and other conventional care
	technologies, which were costly and difficult to obtain. In 1978,
	Rey Sanabria and Martínez-Gómez developed a new method for treating
	low birth weight infants in their hospital and called it the
	Kangaroo Mother Program. Their method included skin-to-skin chest
	contact between a mother and her infant, exclusive breastfeeding,
	which meant using breastfeeding as the primary method for feeding
	infants, and early discharge from the hospital. The method was
	referred to as the Kangaroo Mother Program because the constant
	skin-to-skin contact was inspired by the gray kangaroo, an animal
	that carries its baby in a pouch on the front of its body. Between
	1979 and 1981, over 500 infants in Bogota received Rey Sanabria and
	Martínez-Gómez’s new treatment, and the researchers reported that
	infant survival rates tripled as a result. Later, Rey Sanabria and
	Martínez-Gómez’s method was officially termed Kangaroo Mother
	Care.  p 
 p In the 1980s, Rey Sanabria and Martínez-Gómez’s
	Kangaroo Mother Method gained media attention in Europe as news
	networks filmed infants strapped to their mothers’ chests and
	reported on dramatic improvements in survival rates. Rey Sanabria
	and Martínez-Gómez  originally reported their study in 1983 in
	conjunction with United Nations International Children's Emergency
	Fund or UNICEF. In 1985, neonatal researchers Andrew Whitelaw and
	Katharine Sleath traveled from London, England, to Colombia to run
	their own analysis of the method’s effectiveness. In 1985, Whitelaw
	and Sleath published their results in  i The Lancet  i , a
	peer-reviewed medical journal. Whitelaw and Sleath found that the
	kangaroo position and early discharge were effective in treating low
	birth weight infants at the Columbian hospital where there was
	little conventional equipment. They did not recommend the treatment
	over conventional methods used to improve the health of infants in
	well-funded hospitals. Whitelaw and Sleath did, however, emphasize
	the psychological benefits of the Kangaroo Mother Method, including
	improved bonding between a mother and her infant.  p 
 p After the
	Kangaroo Mother Method became widely publicized, physicians
	implemented versions of the method all over the world. In October
	1996, thirty-six participants from fifteen countries gathered in
	Trieste, Italy, for the first international Kangaroo Mother Care
	conference. They evaluated the effectiveness of the treatment in a
	range of different scenarios, such as varying infant weight
	categories, severity of complications, and types of hospitals at
	which the infants were being treated. At the meeting, multiple terms
	for the treatment were consolidated into the term Kangaroo Mother
	Care which, as of 2018, is the term researchers around the
	world use. The participants also agreed on the universal protocol for
	Kangaroo Mother Care, which the WHO published in a manual in 2003 as international
	guidelines.  p 
 p According to the 2003 WHO
	guidelines, Kangaroo Mother Care has three main components. The
	first component is early and continuous skin-to-skin contact between
	the mother and her infant. Physicians typically initiate the contact
	immediately after birth or after any major health complications
	related to low birth weight have been resolved. Medical
	professionals teach mothers to strap their infants to the their
	chests using different materials. All mothers place their infants
	vertically between their breasts, with the infants’ arms above the
	mothers’ breasts and the infants’ legs below the mothers’ breasts,
	and the infants’ heads turned to the side. The WHO states that it is
	imperative that the mother wraps her infant in a position where she
	is able to have her own arms free, so that she can continue with
	daily activities. The infants must be naked except for a diaper, a
	warm hat, and socks. If the room temperature is below 22 degrees
	Celsius, or 71 degrees Fahrenheit, the infant may also have an
	open-front shirt or vest that will still allow for skin contact with
	its mother on the infant’s face, chest, abdomen, and extremities.
	Researchers have demonstrated that temperature  a href=" search?text=regulation" title="" class="lexicon-term" regulation  a  plays an
	important role in infant survival, so much so that decreasing
	environmental temperatures by five degrees Fahrenheit can decrease
	infant survival rates by 12 percent. Low birth weight infants are at
	higher risk for heat loss because they have large skin surface area
	and low body mass. The kangaroo position utilizes the mother’s body
	heat to maintain the infant’s body temperature.  p 
 p The second
	component of Kangaroo Mother Care is exclusive breastfeeding. The
	WHO guidelines recommend that infants begin breastfeeding
	exclusively as soon as possible after birth. If infants are unable
	to breastfeed at any time, the mother should continue to express
	milk and medical staff should teach mothers to feed the infant with
	alternative methods, such as a nasogastric tube, or out of a small
	cup. Researchers demonstrated numerous additional health benefits
	associated with breastfeeding for both the infant and mother.
	Infants who are fed human breast milk are less likely to contract
	infectious diseases, which leads to lower death rates. Researchers
	have also shown that breastfeeding improves cognitive development in
	infants. According to researchers, maternal benefits may include
	decreased risk of breast and ovarian cancer, decreased postpartum
	bleeding, and quicker return to pre- a href=" search?text=pregnancy" title="" class="lexicon-term" pregnancy  a  weight. The first two
	components of Kangaroo Mother Care, skin-to-skin contact and
	breastfeeding, directly affect the ability to achieve the third,
	which is early discharge from the hospital.  p 
 p The last
	component of Kangaroo Mother Care is early infant discharge from the
	hospital. The WHO recommends that medical staff should discharge
	infants from the hospital when they are able to maintain a stable
	body temperature, gain weight, and feed well. When treated with
	Kangaroo Mother Care, an infant is able to meet those milestones
	because the mother’s body maintains the infant’s body temperature as
	a substitute for the incubator technology, which typically requires
	that infants stay in the hospital longer. Most infants will still be
	less developed than a full-term infant at discharge, and therefore
	protocol recommends that staff provide continual support for mothers
	after discharge with frequent follow ups. The WHO recommends at
	least one visit by a trained healthcare professional for each week
	that the infant is premature.  p 
 p The use of Kangaroo Mother Care
	continues to evolve. In general, doctors use Kangaroo Mother Care to
	manage complications related to low birth weight such as difficulty
	maintaining body temperature, slow infant growth rate, and high risk
	of infection. Although the WHO recommends that physicians use the
	treatment for infants who have no major health problems like heart
	defects or intestinal disorders, and for infants who are able to
	breathe air independently of machines, some studies have shown that
	Kangaroo Mother Care may have immunity and bonding benefits when
	used in conjunction with incubators. Research has shown that
	Kangaroo Mother Care has the greatest outcomes when it is initiated
	immediately after birth, and when it is used many hours of the day
	over an extended period of time. Though doctors treating low birth
	weight infants in developing and underdeveloped countries almost
	exclusively use Kangaroo Mother Care, the method has also become a
	frequent replacement for incubators in developed countries.  p 
 p Since the development of Kangaroo Mother Care in the 1970s, many
	researchers have conducted studies to evaluate its effectiveness in
	both rural and urban communities. In 2016, a Cochrane systematic
	review of Kangaroo Mother Care showed a decrease in common
	consequences of low birth weight such as severe infection called
	sepsis, low body temperature called hypothermia, lower respiratory
	tract disease, and other illnesses. There is also evidence that
	Kangaroo Mother Care is equal to, if not better than, incubator care
	for treating all low birth weight infants. For example, Kangaroo
	Mother Care increases duration and prevalence of breastfeeding and
	infant-mother bonding, while decreasing infant and mother stress.
	Furthermore, Kangaroo Mother Care has been shown to empower mothers
	and boost maternal confidence in caring for their newborns.
	Researchers have not demonstrated that those additional benefits
	result from conventional care.  p 
 p In 1991, Rey Sanabria and
	Martínez-Gómez  received The Sasakawa Health Prize from the WHO for
	their Kangaroo Mother Program. Since the first Workshop and Congress
	of the International Network on Kangaroo Mother Care in 1996,
	researchers and physicians have participated in biyearly conferences
	focused on the uses and advantages of the technique based on updated
	research and professional experience. In 2003, the WHO’s Department
	of Reproductive Health and Research published the Kangaroo Mother
	Care guidelines in more than a dozen languages based on that
	workshop and sold thousands of copies. As of 2018, Kangaroo Mother
	Care has become common practice around the world. The International
	Network on Kangaroo Mother Care continues outreach programs to
	implement the method in communities throughout the world. In
	technologically developed countries, researchers continue to explore
	Kangaroo Mother Care for new uses such as pain management in infants
	during blood draws. Researchers are also studying the role of father
	figures in Kangaroo Mother Care, as well as the long term outcomes
	of implementing the treatment method.  p 
 p  a href="https:  hpsrepository.asu.edu handle 10776 13060" Show full item record  a   p 
 p © 2018 Arizona Board of Regents  p 
