 p Scientists have long nurtured the hope that kangaroo stomachs could help limit the emissions of man-made greenhouse gases.  p 
 p However, a recent study can now put an end to that hope.  p 
 p Up until now, it has been believed that kangaroos, unlike cows, produced little or no methane gas, even though the two animals have very similar diets.  p 
 p Earth’s many millions of cows produce considerable quantities of methane which is primarily released into the atmosphere in the form of burps.  p 
 p The original idea was to transfer the methane-free stomach culture of the kangaroo to cows.  p 
 p But according to the study, such a procedure would be futile, as kangaroos do in fact produce methane gases. The gases simply come out the other end – in other words as farts.  p 
 p The study of eight red-necked wallabies that do their daily jumping at the Copenhagen Zoo was conducted by the zoo’s staff veterinarian Mads Bertelsen and Professor Jørgen Madsen of the University of Copenhagen.  p 
 p The greenhouse effect of methane gas is 20 times larger than that of carbon dioxide, so it makes sense to limit the emission.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.fao.org docrep 010 a0701e a0701e00.HTM" target="_blank" According to one report  a , the estimated annual world-wide methane emission from animals is 86 million tons. Cows are responsible for more than 75 percent of this emission.  p 
 p The wallabies were placed in large individual boxes for 24 hours. Each box was equipped with a ventilation system pumping pure atmospheric air into the box, thereby allowing researchers to measure the concentration of oxygen, carbon dioxide and methane in the air escaping the box, explains Bertelsen.  p 
 p “Monitoring the concentration for more than 24 hours enabled us to observe fluctuation in the methane concentration. The increases were very likely to stem from farts,” he says.  p 
 p If the same experiment is conducted with a cow the methane level is almost constant, because its methane production stems from the rumination. In other words, they burp methane.  p 
 p Scientists have long hoped to uncover the secret of the pouched mammals’ methane-free farts, with a view to transferring the advantageous stomach culture to cattle farming.  p 
 p Even though the myth of the methane-neutral kangaroo has now been buried, the experiment has by no means been fruitless.  p 
 p Kangaroo farts only contain between a third and a quarter of the methane levels found in cow burps, depending on their diet.  p 
 p “A kangaroo digests food without producing any methane in its stomach. That could be useful knowledge,” says the veterinarian.  p 
 p Methane gas is produced when organic matter is converted by microorganisms in an oxygen-deprived environment.  p 
 p In the process, both methane and carbon dioxide is created.  p 
 p The methane is primarily produced in the first of the cow’s four stomach compartments, the large rumen, during digestion of fodder.  p 
 p Microorganisms found in the stomachs of the kangaroos have been analysed and will now be compared to those found in cows and sheep.  p 
 p Scientists are working to find alternative ways of bringing down the methane production in cows. Possible solutions include changing their fodder or selecting breeds that burp less.  p 
 p Simply replacing the cows with kangaroos is not an option as kangaroo production cannot be set up just anywhere.  p 
 p The meatier breeds do not thrive outside of the Australian climate. They are sensitive to humidity, which means that it’s very difficult to breed them outside of Australia, he says.  p 
 p Should you happen to be in Australia one day and stumble upon a juicy kangaroo steak, the zoo veterinarian warmly recommends that you sink your teeth into it.  p 
 p “I’ve only tried kangaroo meat once. It was excellent.”  p 
 p The study has been published in Journal of Animal Science.  p 
 p ------------------------------- br 
	 a href="http:  videnskab.dk miljo-naturvidenskab skuffede-forskere-ov-kaenguruer-prutter-metan" target="_blank" Read this story in Danish at videnskab.dk  a   p 
 p  a href=" insidenews" All inside news  a   p 
 p id="footer-name" © ScienceNordic.com  span id="footer-email" Email:  a href="mailto:editor@sciencenordic.com" editor@sciencenordic.com  a   span   p 
 p id="footer-adr"  strong ScienceNordic offices:  strong  br 
		Copenhagen: c o Videnskab.dk, Trekronergade 26, 2500 Valby, Denmark. Phone +45 70 70 17 88 br 
		Oslo: c o Forskning.no, Postbox 5 Torshov, 0412 Oslo, Norway. Phone +47 22 80 98 90  p 
 p id="footer-about"  strong ScienceNordic.com - Independent news on research in the Nordic countries  strong   p 
 p id="footer-flags"  span class="footer-flag flag-dk" Denmark  span   span class="footer-flag flag-no" Norway  span   span class="footer-flag flag-se" Sweden  span   span class="footer-flag flag-fi" Finland  span   span class="footer-flag flag-is" Iceland  span   p 
