 p In 1990, a new species of tree kangaroo, the golden-mantled tree kangaroo, was discovered in the Torricelli Mountains of Papua New Guinea. It had a chestnut-brown coat, pale belly and a double stripe of gold down its back. A second population of the marsupial was discovered on the Indonesian side of the New Guinea island in 2005, but there are few of these animals and their population is thought to be decreasing. Scientists estimate that the golden-mantled tree kangaroo has been extirpated from 99% of its historical range, its numbers driven low by habitat destruction and hunting.  p 
 p The same factors that threaten the golden-mantled tree kangaroo also put many of the 13 other tree kangaroo species at risk. Many tree kangaroo species are incredibly rare and most are decreasing in number. These animals represent an interesting divergence in the evolution of Macropods—the family of marsupials that includes kangaroos and wallabies. Macropods were once all tree dwellers but millions of years ago they descended from the trees to live on the ground. The ancestors of tree kangaroos eventually headed back up into the foliage and they are now the largest tree-dwelling mammals in Australia.  p 
 p Tree kangaroos live in lowland and mountainous rainforests in Papua New Guinea, Indonesia and the far north of Queensland, Australia. They have adapted to life in the trees, with shorter legs and stronger forelimbs for climbing, giving them somewhat of the appearance of a cross between a kangaroo and a lemur.  p 
 p Forests are very important to us, and to many different species. WWF is working to address the threats to forests, and protect the species that call them home. Check out some of the animals who hang out in forests.   p 
 p Millions of years ago the ancestors of Macropods—the family of marsupials that includes kangaroos and wallabies—descended from the trees. But one group of Macropods, known as tree kangaroos, eventually returned to that arboreal life.  p 
 p No reasonable doubt that the last individual has died  p 
 p Known only to survive in cultivation, in captivity or as a naturalised population  p 
 p Facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Likely to qualify for a threatened category in the near future  p 
 p Does not qualify for Critically Endangered, Endangered, Vulnerable, or Near Threatened  p 
 p Tropical rainforest in Papua New Guinea.  p 
 p Indigenous peoples throughout the tree kangaroo’s range hunt the animals for food, sometimes using dogs to track them down. For several species, hunting alone has driven these marsupials close to extinction.  p 
 p To reduce habitat lost through deforestation, WWF works to decrease illegal logging and supports Forest Stewardship Council certification for wood and wood products. The organization also promotes and manages protected areas for the tree kangaroo.  p 
 p WWF collaborates with programs such as TRAFFIC, the wildlife trade monitoring network, to reduce illegal hunting and works to raise awareness about the effects of hunting tree kangaroos and other species  p 
 p Show your love of the tiger with the WWF BankAmericard Cash Rewards Visa credit card. Bank of America will contribute $100 to WWF for each account opened and activated.  p 
 p Make a symbolic animal adoption to help save some of the world's most endangered animals from extinction and support WWF's conservation efforts.  p 
 p Get the latest conservation news with WWF email.
  p 
 p Already have a WWF account?
  p 
 p class="address" 
 strong World Wildlife Fund  strong  br 
1250 24th Street, N.W. br 
Washington, DC 20037
  p 
 p class="copyright" © 2019 World Wildlife Fund  p 
