 p Anyone wishing to transport protected animals (including the carcass or the egg of a protected animal) in or out of South Australia must hold an Import or Export Permit.  p 
 p It is through these permits that we are able to track fauna and make sure that animals are being legally obtained and traded.  p 
 p Every protected animal brought into the state must be approved and a permit issued before it is consigned. There are several reasons for this:  p 
 p There is no charge for Import Permits and they are valid for 1 month.  p 
 p More information:  p 
 p Every protected animal taken out of the state must be approved and a permit issued before it is consigned.  p 
 p Individual Export Permits are required for each consignment. When an application for an Export Permit is made, checks may be made to make sure the animal was legally obtained.  p 
 p There is no charge for Export Permits and they are valid for 1 month.  p 
 p More information:  p 
 p Holders of a Fauna Dealer Permit, Kangaroo Processor Permit or Tannery Permit may be issued a permit for multiple consignments.  p 
 p Generally, permits to trade in live protected animals are valid for 1 month. Permits to import export kangaroo products (carcasses and skins) may be granted for a period of up to 3 months.  p 
 p If you wish to export wildlife and wildlife products overseas, visit the  a href="http:  www.environment.gov.au biodiversity trade-use index.html" title="Australian Government Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities website" target="_blank" Australian Government Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities website  a  for further information.  p 
 p We acknowledge and respect the Traditional Custodians whose ancestral lands we live and work upon and we pay our respects to their Elders past and present. We acknowledge and respect the deep spiritual connection and the relationship that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have to Country.  p 
 p We also pay our respects to the cultural authority of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and their nations in South Australia, as well as those across Australia.  p 
 p class="c-page-footer__smallprint"  a href=" copyright" Copyright © Department for Environment and Water 2017  a . All rights reserved.  p 
