 p class="kontakt1"  b Giraffe  b  br 
	   Giraffes are well adapted to a life in a savannah. They drink water when it is aivailable but can go weeks without it, 
they rely on morning dew and the water content of their food. Their very long necks are an adaption to feeding at high 
levels in the treetops. Their physical adaption, a long neck, does not only help them to graze but also helps them keep 
track of predators and it enables visual communication with other giraffe over several miles. br 
In the giraffe did not have a long neck it would be an easier pray for predators and it would not get as much food. br 
Similar to giraffes are elephants. They use long trunks to reach high tree-tops. br 
 i Pille  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Hyena  b  br 
It is eating dead animals' corpses and it does not kill them. It lets to do the killing by lions. It is not very brave too.
It can have eating problems because of that it does not kill the animal. It has many similar animals to him, for example 
lions, wild dogs, jackals and vultures. br 
 i Ivo  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Wallaroo  b  br 
Wallaroo inhabits the mountanous pastures of eastern Australia. It prefers to live in rocky outcrops or stoney ground.
That is why it has furry pads on feet, for climbing rocks. It is adapted to dig watr from the ground, that is how it gets its water. If it 
would not dig for water it would surely die. Many animals in that environment dig for water because there is not much water there. br 
 i Vova  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b African Hedgehog  b  br 
This animal has spiny armour, it is the main reason for their survival. The ability to curl up involves minor skeletal modifications
 and the unique circular skin muscle. This animal is omnivorous and nocturnial animal. Also they have very acute auditory sense and 
 olfactory sense. br 
When this animal would not have these adaptations, this animal could not protect himself from predators and will have difficult to find food. br 
There is one animal who has similar adaptations, it is porcupine. br  i Tairo  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Squirrel Monkey  b  br 
Squirrel Monkeys move through the trees by leaping. They have small back legs, that allows more jumping force. Thei live on trees. They do 
not come down from treesw because there is no food and hunters can kill them. They are bugger tha n squirrels. br 
 i Ardo  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Bactrian Camel  b  br 
Long legs allow Bactrian Camel to travel great distances easily. Fat stored in two humps. The 
Bactrian Camels are classified as herbivores. They live primarly in Central Asian deserts north of
the Himalayas. The Bactrian Camel has a remarkable capacity to endure extreme temperatures, both 
high and low. It lives in small groups of up to twenty individuals, led by an adult male. The camel
can go without food and water for 3 to 4 days. There is Arabian Camel with similar adaptations.  br 
 i Jüri  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Elephant  b  br 
It has a trunk and tusks which keep him alive. It uses its tusks in order to protect himself. It uses its trunk in order to drink, 
gather food and bathe itself. These things are a physical part of the animal.If the animal did not have 
these things it would not be able to eat, drink, bath itself or protect itself. br 
 i Henrik  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Giraffe  b  br 
Special adaptations of Giraffe are that she can be long time without water and with her long neck 
she could eat food at high levels in the treetops. These adaptations are physical. br 
If Giraffe did not have these adaptations, it might have some problems like it can not drink water 
and it is hard to get food. Also it can not live in savanna. br 
Yes other animals in savanna have some similar adaptions like they can be long time without water. 
For example elephant, zebra.  br 
 i Keteli  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Zebra  b  br 
Zebars live in savannas. They can run quickly to escape from predator (like lions, hyenas), 
because they have long legs. They eat grasses and drink water veru often, so they must stay near 
the water. They move as one big family. Those are the behavioural adaptations. if they have not got 
long legs, then they could not run quickly and so the predators could catch them easily. Zebras are 
closely related to horses and donkeys. br 
 i Karel  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Polar Bear  b  br 
Polar bear has thick fur to protect itself from cold. It has fat under its skin. They 
have longer legs than other bears have and have very furry feet. These feet help to distribute their
weight as they walk on a thin ice. All these are physical adaptions. br 
Polar bear would feel very cold without thick skin, it would be hard to insulate them 
in the frigid waters without hollow hairs. Without their large feet they wouldn't stay on the thin ice. 
There live also phocas who have streamlined and slippery skin and they have thick skin. Polar 
bear eats them. br 
Polar bears are very dangerous animals for people. They are white and it is quite good adaption to hide 
there in Arctic pole where everything is white and bright. It is good when it hunts phocas. 
When female polar bear gets little polar bears then she hs to hide them from male polar bear 
because he may eat them to get attention of female polar bear.
 br 
 i Tea  i 
  p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Wallaroo  b  br 
They have furry pads on feet. They are good for rock climbing. They dig actually for water. 
These adaptions are behavioural part of the animal. This animal is adpted to heat and dryness. 
If this animal would not have these adaptions it would not get water and if it would not have furry 
pads it could not climb. br 
There are other animals too, who adapted with these things, like wallabies, pademelons, tree-kangaroos, forets allabies 
and potoroos. br 
 i Ivi  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b White-Cheeked Gibbon  b  br 
This little monkey lives in high canopy of tropical rainforests. br 
Usually they eat small and pulpy fruit, buds, young leaves and sometimes invertebrates too. 
Family members feed together usually, but sometimes they forage alone. But when they are going 
to rest or sleep (at night) they get together again. br 
Their home territory is very large, about 8,5 acres. But it may vary very much. And they protect 
their area very carefully. br 
Single offsprings born every year two or three years after 7-8 month gestation. Their maturity 
occurs when they are about 6 years old. But males leave the family when they are about 8 years old. 
Usually they live about 25 or more years. br 
 i Triin  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Koala  b  br 
Koalas are perfectly designed for their tree-dwelling life. Their hands have a large gap between 
the first and second fingers and their big toe is set ata a wide angle to the foot. This gives the koala 
vicelike grip on branches. They comfortabely sit in a tree alla day because of their thickly padded toes.
That means the adaptation is more of a behaviour, if they would not eat eucalypt tree leaves they would drink 
a lot more water because they get the water from the leaves. If kola would not climb trees, it could have been 
eaten out of existence, because they are too slow to escape from predators as dingoes are. br 
There are not many animals who have similar adptions as koala, in fact there are none in koala's environment. 
But near their environment is an animal called three toed sloth, who also climbs trees and is slow. br 
 i Peeter  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Squirrel  b  br 
Squirrel has got strong teeth, it brakes nuts with them. It also runs and hides itself to the 
treetops. Its enemies are bigger animals and people. It also has got claws. Adaptations are physical but also
behavioural too. When squirrel did not got teeth it could not eat or when it did not run away it 
could be eaten. Squirrel is a very interesting animal. Similar to it is beaver. br 
 i Johanna  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Koala  b  br 
Koalas have an opposable modified index finger that acts as a second thumb. Their big toe is set 
at a wide angle to the foot. The adaptations are more of a behaviour that the koala uses. It would not get 
any food. The sloth has similar adaptions. br 
 i Marge  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Armadillo  b  br 
Armadillos are mammals. There are 20 species of Armadillos, grouped in 9 genera and distributed through America 
from Argentina to the South-Eastern corner of U.S. br 
Many armadillos are nocturnal. They live in burrows when not active. br 
Armadillos live on a variety of food. Insects and other invertebrates, plants and small vertebrates 
such as snakes and lizards. Naked-tailed armadillos feed mainly on ants and termites. br 
1-4 young armadillos are born each year depending on the spechies. The young are born with a soft 
leathery skin which hardens after a few days. br 
 i Killu  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Zebra  b  br 
Zebras are abel to run 40mph. Zebras use hooves and teeth in defence. They have stripes to recognize 
each other. They live in family group. Family group has a leader, sometimes 2 leaders. Also stripes confuse 
tsetse flies who can not see zebra for the stripes. Some of those adaptions are physical part of the animal.
There are also some adaptions that they use. If zebras would not live in groups they would be weaker. 
If they could not run that fast predators would kill more zebras then they do now. If zebras would not 
have stripes they would not be able to recognize each other that well and tsetse flies would see them well. br 
In this environment deers and antilopes can also run fast. With that aptations they can escape from predators. br 
 i Mairi  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Californian King Snake  b  br 
Californian King Snake is partially or wholly immune to the venom of rattlesnakes and is able 
to eat and kill them. These adaptions are more of a behavioural ones and the Californian King Snake 
uses them. If the snake would not have those adaptions it would die. (It might have not something 
to eat). Other animals who live in this environment do not have similar adaptions. br 
 i Evelin  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Giraffe  b  br 
Giraffe has long neck to reach to the high trees and eat eat the leaves. It has a muscular 
tongue to take the leaves. The tall neck enables to see enemies from far distance. It runs fast 
and can go without drinking for a long period. br 
Giraffes can communicate with other giraffes over few miles. Giraffes can not make big sound, they 
only grunt, snort and bleat. They are used to sleep for 1-20 minutes, not longer. They sleep and they 
do not lie down. When they fight they use their neck and head banging. br 
 i Helina  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Red Panda  b  br 
Red Panda feeds at night, so it does not have to compete with other animals that feed on the same things 
and has extra thumbs on its front paws to grab better. So its adaptions are both physical and behavioural. 
Thanks to these adaptions it does not have to worry about competition or fear about predators.
Another of its adaptions is shared with squirrels-the big bushy tail to keep balance while climbing. 
Red pandas prefer temperate forests. br 
 i Pirgit  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Platypus  b  br 
Platypus is perfectly designed for underwater life, it has two layers of fur - the first is short 
and dense and never lets water through to the skin. The second is longer and is the layer of fur 
that gets wet. Platypus has the flat furry tail which stores fat for long cold winter in freezing 
waters. br 
The adaptions are physical part of the animal. If platypus did not have these adaptions if 
its fur gets wet, it would not keep platypus warm. Also if platypus did not have sensitive beak, it would not find 
food. And if it did not have tail that stores fat for winter, it would not survive a winter. br  
There are no other animal in this environment that have similar adaptions. br 
 i Triinu  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Polar Bear  b  br 
Polar bears live year round near arctic waters hunting seal and other animals, rarely coming on land exept on islands 
and rocky points. In winter they hunt along the Arctic shelfs looking for tasty seals, fish and 
even humans. Polar bears are very dangerous, and grow to a huge size and weight, as much as 
small automobile. They have longer legs than other bears and large furry feet. These big feet help to 
distribute their weight as they walk on thin ice in the Arctic waters. br 
 i Maris  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Siberian Tiger  b  br 
They live in a climate where the winter can get snowy and the cold is bitter. To start with, the Siberian tiger has an extra layer of fat on its body to insulate it from the cold. It also has a very thick coat and more fur on the foot pads. These physical adaptations help the tiger survive the harsh Siberian winters. Also, all these tigers are great hunters, capable of bringing down animals larger than their own selves. The hind limbs are longer than its forelimbs, which is an adaptation for longer jumps. Northern forests offer the lowest human density of any tiger habitat, and the most complete ecosystem. The vast woodlands also allow tigers far more room to roam, as Russia's timber industry is currently less extensive than that of many other countries. For an animal that hunts alone it is easier to hide and to get its prey. However, in times when food is hard to find, they may come together and cooperate. br 
 i Casandra  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Polar Bear  b  br 
Their thick fur keeps them warm in frigid air and water. Their white fur actually transparent, for camouflage in ice and snow. their skin is black to absorb heat from the sun's rays to help keep them warm. the pads provide traction on ice. Claws are curved to dig through ice. Small ears and tails are short to minimize heat loss. Teeth are more jagged than most bears, suiting a carnivore. their nostrils close underwater.
They ceep their fur clean because of camouflage.
 br 
 i Adolf  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Bengal Tiger  b  br 
Bengal tigers are nocturnal: they hunt at night. Though powerful and quick over short distances, they stalk their prey because they cannot outrun faster prey. The tiger kills small prey with a bite on the back of the neck and large prey with a bite to the throat. Since Bengal tigers are solitary and do not like to share their hunting grounds, they need large home ranges in which to hunt. Males occupy about 20 square miles, while females typically require 17 square miles. br 
 i Ellen-Maria  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Chimpanzee  b  br 
Chimpanzees live and work in groups up to one hundred. It helps them a lot because they can keep each other safe. Their worst predator is the leopard. Leopards always go for the weak or young. If they stay together the leopard wouldn't attack because the strong will help the weak and young. Their communication sounds like a screaming squeak. They only live in the trees they eat from. And they also help each other groom. br 
 i Helen  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Grizzly Bear  b  br 
Grizzlies and Black Bears use their claws as an adaptation to hunt, climb and dig. 
Grizzlys also have a very good smell to get to thier prey
Grizzly bears can stand on their back legs. This allows them to dance, and see if danger is approaching. 
Grizzly bears have their cubs inside of their dens during hibernation. This allows them to train the babes to hunt, dance, and survive before leaving the den. 
Grizzly bears have long claws. This allows them to spear their food, like salmon, and dance. 
Grizzly bears have a very keen sense of smell. This allows them to make up for their poor eye sight. And dance.
 br 
 i Rauno  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Leopard  b  br 
The spots, or rosettes are circular, which helps  it to blend in with the background. The spotted coat provides almost perfect camouflage. The elegant, powerfully built leopard has a long body, relatively short legs and a broad head. Its tawny is covered with dark, irregular circles called rosettes. br 
 i Lisbeth  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Siberian Tiger  b  br 
For an animal that hunts alone it is easier to hide and to get its prey. However, in times when food is hard to find, they may come together and cooperate. They live in a climate where the winter can get snowy and the cold is bitter. To start with, the Siberian tiger has an extra layer of fat on its body to insulate it from the cold. It also has a very thick coat and more fur on the foot pads. These physical adaptations help the tiger survive the harsh Siberian winters. Also, all these tigers are great hunters, capable of bringing down animals larger than their own selves. The hind limbs are longer than its forelimbs, which is an adaptation for longer jumps. br 
 i Laura  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Round Island Day Gecko  b  br 
Geckos have special feet to help them climb up smooth surfaces. The flattened toes have elongated scales. A microscopic view would show thousands of tiny, hooked bristles that can hold on to any surface. This means they can easily climb up palm trees, as well as hide on the underside of leaves. They also have sharp teeth to penetrate the exo-skeleton of an insect. If attacked, Round Island Day Geckos have a unique way of defending themselves. The tail just drops off and lies moving around on the ground. Hopefully the enemy will pay attention to the tail while the gecko escapes. The stump quickly heals, and they will eventually grow a new tail. br 
 i Egle  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Grey Wolfe  b  br 
It is capable to run for 20 minutes, to stock it's prey at the speed of 56-64 km per hour. Strong and long jaws. Huge paws. It can reduce the flow of blood near their skin to conserve body heat. Large seized. The warmth of the footpads is regulated independently of the rest of the body, and is maintained at just above tissue-freezing point where the pads came in contact with ice and snow. They can easily follow fresh tracks. br 
 i Ragne  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Cheetah  b  br 
Adaptations that enable the cheetah to run as fast as it does include large nostrils that allow for increased oxygen intake, and an enlarged heart and lungs that work together to circulate oxygen efficiently. During a typical chase, its respiratory rate increases from 60 to 150 breaths per minute While running, in addition to having good traction due to its semiretractable claws, the cheetah uses its tail as a rudder-like means of steering to allow it to make sharp turns, necessary to outflank prey animals that often make such turns to escape. br 
 i Mark  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Parrotfish  b  br 
A number of parrotfish species, including the queen parrotfish, excrete a mucus cocoon, particularly at night. Prior to going to sleep, some species extrude mucus from their mouths, forming a protective cocoon that envelops and secures the fish at a particular location and, presumably hides its scent from predators.This mucus envelope may also act as an early warning system, allowing the parrotfish to flee when it detects predators such as moray eels disturbing the protective membrane.Also the colour helps to protect, when they arre located near to  rockwalls. In most parrotfish species, juveniles have a different color pattern than adults. Juveniles of some tropical species can alter their color temporarily to mimic other species.  br 
 i Mari-Ann  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Thorny Devil  b  br 
It inhabits arid scrub and desert over most of central Australia. In particular, it inhabits spinifex (triodia) sandplain and sandridge desert within the interior and mallee belt. Its distribution largely coincides more with the distribution of sandy and sandy loam soils than with a particular climate in western Australia. The food that the devil mainly eats is ants, often Iridomyrmex or Ochetellus. They collect moisture in the dry desert via night-time condensation of dew which forms on the skin and is channelled to the mouth in hygroscopic grooves between its spines. During rain events, capillary action allows the lizard to suck in water from all over its body. br 
 i Liisbet  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Polar Bear  b  br 
.	a white appearance, as camouflage from prey on the snow and ice br 
.	thick layers of fat and fur, for insulation against the cold br 
.	a small surface area to volume ratio, to minimise heat loss br 
.	a greasy coat, which sheds water after swimming br 
.	a very wide large paws- they help walk in the snow br 
.	nostrils which it can close- when it swims under the water br 
.	Babies remain with their mother until the third spring of their lives. br 
.	Males fight over the females so only the best reproduce br 
.	they will act in defense if another polar bear or organism comes too close to it's offspring OR its territory by snarling, chasing, standing on its hind legs and looking 'big', they will also 'wrestle' another polar bear by pushing them away
 br 
 i Kristel  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Hummingbird  b  br 
Most hummingbirds have bills that are long and straight so that they can get nectar from flowers. Hummingbirds drink by using protrusible grooved or trough-like tongues. While in flight have the highest metabolism of all animals, a necessity in order to support the rapid beating of their wings. Long bills. When they don't fly anymore their body temperature drops and they fall into hypopraxia.
 br 
 i Katariina  i   p 
 p class="kontakt1"  b Lion  b  br 
Sensitive wiskers- help the lion find its way in dense cover or on moonless nights. Moving in for the kill, it spreads its whiskers like a living circular net, which helps it select the best spot to clamp its great jaws on its victim.
Sharp Claws- for killing food and tearing flesh.
Mane- the mane of the male lion serves a dual function and makes the male lion look bigger.
Color- blends in with the dead grass.
Lions live in groups, which are called prides.All of a pride's lionesses are related, and female cubs typically stay with the group as they age. Female lions are the pride's primary hunters. They often work together to prey upon antelopes, zebras, wildebeest, and other large animals of the open grasslands.
 br 
 i Freda  i   p 
