 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-2@published" data-word-count="124" When the Copenhagen Zoo on Sunday  a href="http:  nymag.com daily intelligencer 2014 02 giraffe-killed-for-having-unremarkable-genes.html" killed a giraffe  a  whose genes it couldn’t use in its breeding program, it fed the carcass to the zoo’s lions. While the general public was  a href="http:  www.theguardian.com world 2014 feb 09 danish-zoo-outrage-giraffe-marius" appalled at the zoo’s decision  a , the carcass did provide those carnivores with some of the meat they would have consumed in the wild, still attached to the body of their natural prey.  a href="http:  www.nytimes.com 2014 02 10 world europe anger-erupts-over-danish-zoos-decision-to-put-down-a-giraffe.html?ref=world" The New York  em Times  em  pointed out  a  that “t span he species is not endangered, but it faces threats from habitat loss and hunting.” After that, it was hard not to wonder: If people hunt giraffes, they must eat them. And if so, what does the meat taste like? The descriptions we found, while intriguing, still did not make us want to try it. br   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-3@published" data-word-count="58" While not all giraffe hunting is illegal — people  a href="http:  www.dailymail.co.uk news article-2089806 The-giraffe-hunters-pay-10-000-shoot-gentle-giants-guns-bows-sport.html" pay handsomely for safaris  a  on private land in South Africa, Namibia, and Zimbabwe — many of those who harvest these long-necked herbivores are poachers trafficking in bushmeat. That  a href="http:  www.fws.gov international wildlife-without-borders global-program bushmeat.html" catch-all term  a  refers to meat taken from animals in the African wild, usually illegally and with no regard for the health of animal span class="widont"    span populations.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-5@published" data-word-count="65" As one game warden in Kenya  a href="http:  www.africareview.com Special-Reports - 979182 1148054 - x6cqvxz - index.html" told the Africa Review  a  news site, giraffes “are now easy targets for poachers because the animals have a lot of meat on their bones. Meat [from] one giraffe can be equal to meat that one gets from four elands [ a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Common_eland" antelopes  a ].” The meat is frequently sold  a href="http:  bushmeateastafrica.wildlifedirect.org 2009 05 08 butchery-of-africa%E2%80%99s-wildlife-heritage " extremely cheaply  a , and the often-minimal fines for trading in it can be frustratingly ineffective at preventing span class="widont"    span it.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-6@published" data-word-count="69" But the meat can be obtained legitimately, both in Africa and apparently here in the United States, sometimes appearing on restaurant menus. A restaurant called Panache opened in Killington, Vermont, around 1994 or so, offering a menu of exotic meats that included giraffe.  a href="http:  www.bostonphoenix.com archive features 97 12 11 EXOTIC_MEAT.html" According to the Boston  em Phoenix  em   a  in 1997, that offering consisted of “ span a red meat that was served   span  i very   i  span rare, which made it extra tender. It had a melt-in-your-mouth span class="widont"    span quality.”  span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-7@published" data-word-count="40"  span   span One Montana-based business called Giraffine claims to sell live animals as well as meat, which  a href="http:  giraffine.ydafs.com faqs " its website describes  a  as “intensely flavored lean meat; It tastes very similar to horse meat but more tender.” A call to Giraffine was not immediately span class="widont"    span returned.  p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-9@published" data-word-count="61" The  a href="http:  www.bootsnall.com articles 12-11 seeing-and-eating-exotic-animals-in-south-africa.html" travel site Bootsnall  a  spoke with the owner of a Johannesburg restaurant called  a href="http:  www.recreationafrica.co.za carnivore " Carnivore  a , which sells a variety of local exotic meats. The restaurant says it gets its giraffe meat through registered culling programs. Owner Allen Dixon told Bootsnall’s  span Mattie John Bamman, “g span iraffe meat has a great deal of sinew … It can be quite tough and chewy, however, it is very span class="widont"    span flavorful.”   span   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-10@published" data-word-count="24"  span  span Apparently results vary with this particular meat, but nothing we’ve read so far makes it sound particularly enticing.  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk news worldnews middleeast israel 2084281 Giraffe-is-kosher-Israeli-vets-have-ruled.html" It is kosher  a , for what it’s span class="widont"    span worth.  span   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-12@published" data-word-count="70" Still, the meat has its evangelists, such as British chef Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, who  a href="http:  www.telegraph.co.uk foodanddrink 4287891 Chef-Hugh-Fearnley-Whittingstall-under-fire-for-eating-giraffe.html" told an interviewer  a  in 2009, “ span I’ve tasted giraffe and crocodile and I can highly recommend them.” But Fearnley-Whittingstall also got a lot of criticism for doing so. “The last thing wildlife needs is Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall encouraging diners without principles to treat the rest of the world as a larder,” said conservationist Justin Kerswell, with the  span class="caps" U.K.  span  group  a href="http:  www.viva.org.uk what-we-do" Viva!  a   span   p 
 p class="clay-paragraph" data-editable="text" data-uri="nymag.com intelligencer _components clay-paragraph instances ambrose-4edb016e37f25e7f76ca2e2b07f4480b-13@published" data-word-count="36"  span Seeing as how the meat has so little to recommend it aside from Fearnley-Whittingstall’s five-year-old comment and carries such a high risk of being harvested unethically, it’s probably best to leave giraffe-eating to lions in the span class="widont"    span wild.  span   p 
 p The Trump administration really likes this guy, naturally  p 
 p Michael Cohen was an investigation target early on in the Mueller probe  p 
 p Federal authorities began investigating the email accounts of Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, as early as July 2017, only months after Mr. Trump took office, according to documents unsealed on Tuesday.  p 
 p The emails, dating back to January 2016, were sought by the office of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel conducting the Russia investigation, the documents show.  p 
 p Hundreds of pages of documents about the inquiry into Mr. Cohen were released in response to a request by The New York Times and other media organizations.  p 
 p More details on tech companies’ Sisyphean efforts to keep the New Zealand shooting video off their sites  p 
 p YouTube and Facebook have defended themselves against accusations that they failed to act quickly enough in the wake of the Christchurch terror attack, arguing that their moderation is as good as possible given the number of videos uploaded.  p 
 p Facebook said on Tuesday that the original stream of the attack was viewed live fewer than 200 times and non-live by 4,000 people before it was removed from the site.  p 
 p Copies of it spread rapidly and by Saturday evening the company had removed 1.5m uploads. By Tuesday morning more than 800 distinct edits of the footage had been posted to the site.  p 
 p Opponents of the New York Amazon deal were a vocal minority – emphasis on minority  p 
 p Most voters in New York think it was bad for the state when Amazon dropped plans to put a second headquarters in Queens and many think U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez bears blame for the deal falling through, according to a new poll released Monday.  p 
 p The Siena College poll of registered voters in New York state found that 67 percent of those surveyed said the internet retailer’s decision last month was detrimental to New York. Sixty-one percent support the state and city again offering Amazon up to $3 billion in incentives to create 25,000 jobs if the internet giant reconsiders.  p 
 p “While some may have celebrated Amazon’s announcement to pull the plug, the vast majority of New Yorkers of every stripe thought it was bad for the Empire State,” said Siena pollster Steven Greenberg. “Clearly, jobs outweigh the cost of government incentives in the minds of most voters.”  p 
 p USC says it’s reviewing the status of the kids in the college admissions scandal and they may be expelled  p 
 p In the Trump administration, this counts as high praise  p 
 p [Mick Mulvaney] has stayed out of a lot of people’s way … No one is saying he is killing it but staying out of people’s way has helped.  p 
 p New Zealand’s prime minister has vowed never to say the Christchurch shooter’s name  p 
 p CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The man accused of carrying out the attack that  a href="https:  www.nytimes.com 2019 03 15 world australia new-zealand-mosque-shooting.html?action=click&amp;module=inline&amp;pgtype=Article%C2%AEion=Footer" killed 50 people at two mosques  a  in Christchurch, New Zealand, is expected to represent himself in court, but the country’s prime minister said on Tuesday that she wants to do everything possible to deny him the attention he craves.  p 
 p “He is a terrorist. He is a criminal. He is an extremist,” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said  a href="https:  www.beehive.govt.nz release pm-house-statement-christchurch-mosques-terror-attack" in an address to Parliament  a . “But he will, when I speak, be nameless.”  p 
 p “And to others, I implore you,” she added, “speak the names of those who were lost, rather than name of the man who took them. He may have sought notoriety, but we in New Zealand will give him nothing. Not even his name.”  p 
 p Boeing begins the process of rehabbing the 737 MAX  p 
 p Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg said Monday that Boeing will offer pilot training for the 737 Max following two deadly crashes involving the aircraft in recent months.  p 
 p Muilenburg wrote in a letter to airlines, passengers and the aviation community that Boeing would offer the training and release updated software for the aircraft to “address concerns,” according to the  a href="https:  apnews.com 45a4f1bc172b468c9ddf17ae1b077d09" Associated Press.  a   p 
 p The new software in the plane is thought to have played a role in a crash earlier this month in Ethiopia that killed all 157 people aboard and an October crash in Indonesia that left 189 people dead, the AP noted.  p 
 p Another sign of the Mueller investigation’s (somewhat) impending wrap-up   p 
 p A top Robert Mueller prosecutor who handled Michael Flynn’s guilty plea has left the special counsel’s office amid growing signs that the Russia investigation is nearing its end.  p 
 p Assistant U.S. Attorney Zainab Ahmad “has concluded her detail” under Mueller “but will continue to represent the office on specific pending matters that were assigned to her during her detail,” said Peter Carr, a spokesman for the special counsel.  p 
 p Ahmad, an expert in international criminal and terrorism cases, is the third senior member of Mueller’s team whose plans have been confirmed in recent weeks to leave the team investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election.  p 
 p The surprisingly simple story of how the  em National Enquirer  em  received Jeff Bezos’s texts  p 
 p  a href="https:  quotes.wsj.com AMZN" Amazon.com  a  Inc. founder Jeff Bezos and his allies have publicly speculated about how the National Enquirer acquired  a href="https:  www.wsj.com articles jeff-bezoss-journey-from-private-family-man-to-tabloid-sensation-11549837862?mod=article_inline" racy texts he sent his girlfriend  a , including at one point hinting Saudi Arabia or the White House may have been involved.  p 
 p The reality is simpler: Michael Sanchez, the brother of Mr. Bezos’ lover, sold the billionaire’s secrets for $200,000 to the Enquirer’s publisher, said people familiar with the matter.  p 
 p In most cases, the company’s source agreements require it to pay for information upon publication; if a story is never published, American Media doesn’t have to pay. By contrast, the contract with Mr. Sanchez stipulated he was to paid upfront, regardless of whether any story was published, the people familiar with the contract said.  p 
 p Prepare for a legal battle over who gets to see the Mueller report, and in what order  p 
 p White House lawyers expect to have an opportunity to review whatever version of Robert Mueller’s report Attorney General Bill Barr submits to Congress before it reaches lawmakers and the public, multiple sources familiar with the matter said, setting up a potential political battle over the hotly anticipated document.  p 
 p The attorneys want the White House to have an opportunity to claim executive privilege over information drawn from documents and interviews with White House officials, the sources said.  p 
 p While Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani suggested privilege could be used to keep parts of the report from public view, the issue is up to the White House, not the President’s personal attorneys.  p 
 p In a Twitter thread, writer  a href="https:  twitter.com bananafitz status 1107756767000223744" Anna Fitzpatrick  a  shows that Cory Booker tweeted a version of this nauseating joke a dozen times between 2009 and 2017  p 
 p Startling numbers in a city that is around 25 percent black  p 
 p At Stuyvesant High School, out of 895 slots in the freshman class, only seven were offered to black students. And the number of black students is shrinking: There were 10 black students admitted into Stuyvesant last year, and 13 the year before.  p 
 p Jumaane Williams, the city’s newly elected public advocate and a graduate of Brooklyn Tech, said his opposition to completely scrapping the test remains unchanged. “The numbers are abysmal, we knew that,” said Mr. Williams, who is black. “The question is what do we do about it, how do we do it without needlessly pitting communities against each other?”  p 
 p Though black and Hispanic students make up nearly 70 percent of New York City’s public school system as a whole, just over 10 percent of students admitted into the city’s eight specialized high schools were black or Hispanic, according to statistics released Monday by the city. That percentage is flat compared to last year.  p 
 p The suspect who killed a Gambino mob boss in Staten Island last week drew QAnon symbols on his hand for his extradition hearing  p 
 p At least they’re keeping it light on the continent  p 
 p For sale: local journalism, never written  p 
 p Meet Medicare for America, the healthcare solution Beto O’Rourke will campaign on  p 
 p In brief, here’s what  a href="https:  delauro.house.gov sites delauro.house.gov files Medicare_for_America_Summary.pdf" the bill  a  authored by [Rep. Rosa] DeLauro and [Rep. Jan] Schakowsky and now embraced by O’Rourke would do:  p 
 p The uninsured, people currently purchasing insurance in the Obamacare marketplaces, Medicaid beneficiaries, and newborns would automatically be enrolled into an improved Medicare program, which would continue to cover seniors as well.  p 
 p Employers could continue to offer private insurance, so long as it meets certain federal standards. Companies could also elect to send their workers to the public program and pay a contribution toward their employees’ costs. Likewise, workers could voluntarily leave their job’s insurance for the new public plan.  p 
 p Participants would be required to pay premiums, on a sliding scale based on their income; people with lower incomes would pay no premium at all. Out-of-pocket costs would also be based on income and capped at $3,500 for an individual or $5,000 for a family.  p 
 p Doctors would be paid Medicare rates, with an additional increase provided for primary care doctors and mental health services.  p 
 p A pioneering economist died unexpectedly  p 
 p Princeton University economist Alan Krueger, who served as chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers and was one of the profession’s top experts on the labor market, has died at the age of 58.  p 
 p The New Jersey school announced his death in a  a href="https:  www.princeton.edu news 2019 03 18 alan-krueger-prominent-princeton-economist-passes-away" statement  a  on its website Monday, without giving a cause. Sergeant Fred Williams, a spokesman for the Princeton Police Department, separately said that police found Krueger inside his home on Saturday morning and he was later pronounced dead. An autopsy is being conducted to determine the cause, and the police do not suspect foul play, Williams said.  p 
 p Krueger, who had been a professor at Princeton since 1987, served in Obama’s White House from 2011 to 2013 after a stint as the Treasury Department’s assistant secretary for economic policy. In addition, he served as chief economist at the Labor Department for a year during President Bill Clinton’s administration.  p 
 p class="account-cta-container" 
           span Already a subscriber?  span 
           span  a class="content-cliff-login" title="login" Log in  a  or  a href="https:  my.nymag.com account " link your magazine subscription  a   span 
          p 
