 p Forging a new pact between br  b people and wildlife  b   p 
 p Experience an  b African br adventure  b  close to home  p 
 p Journey through a  b world of wildlife  b  in the heart of Melbourne  p 
 p Explore a  b bushland haven  b  for Australian wildlife  p 
 p  a href=" members" Become a member  a   p 
 p Unlimited entry to 3 great zoos  p 
 p  a class="buy-tickets-online" href=" tickets" Buy tickets  a   p 
 p Save time and book online  p 
 p id="breadcrumblabel" class="element-invisible" You are here  p 
 p Giraffes are thought to be one of the largest pollinators in the world, transferring seeds and other plant matter from one tree to another on their noses, lips and tongues. Acacia leaves form the bulk of the giraffe’s diet, but other trees are also browsed. A male, or bull, can eat up to 80kg of leaves each day, along with bark and fruit.  p 
 p Giraffes are nearly 2 metres in height when first born and males can reach a height of more than 5 metres when fully grown. Excellent eyesight and a good sense of hearing are features of all giraffe subspecies. A giraffe can see a human standing 2km away! Although giraffes don’t have a distinct sound easily identifiable to them, they do communicate with one another through snorts, grunts and low grumbling.  p 
 p Giraffes have a very characteristic walk of moving both legs on the same side of the body simultaneously so they don’t trip themselves up! If alarmed or being chased, giraffes can run at speeds of 60km h. In order to defend itself a giraffe will kick out vigorously with its long and powerful legs. Male giraffes will also use their powerful necks and the horn-like ossicones on the top of their head to ‘play fight’ as they are growing up, and to battle for dominance when they are older.  p 
 p Giraffe are listed as Vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (on the IUCN red list). Poaching for the giraffe’s pelt, meat and tail has significantly reduced wild populations (the hair that grows at the end of the tail is used for threading beads and making bracelets for the tourist trade). Continued human population growth is encroaching on areas where giraffe formerly roamed freely resulting in competition for natural resources, habitat degradation and fragmentation. Civil unrest and armed conflict in several countries has also had a major impact on giraffe distribution across the African continent.  p 
 p Visiting our giraffes at the Zoo will not only open your eyes to these wondrous, sky-scraping mega-herbivores, but also provides an opportunity to get involved in Zoos Victoria's  a href=" get-involved act-for-wildlife beads-for-wildlife" Beads for Wildlife  a  conservation program, which helps communities and wildlife in Northern Kenya.  p 
 p Born 2008  p 
 p While Harold is quite a shy and cautious giraffe, keeping close to herd mate Ajali, he is really building up his confidence, especially when it comes to his daily weigh-in.  p 
 p Born 2010  p 
 p The youngest and smallest giraffe in the herd, Ajali is nicknamed AJ. He is best mates with Harold and likes to accompany him everywhere. He is a curious giraffe and often checks out the rhinos at close range when he is feeling brave.  p 
 p Born 2008  p 
 p Kona is a relaxed giraffe, happy to just go with the flow. You can tell which one he is as his coat is much darker in colour than the others.  p 
 p Born 2010  p 
 p Jelani is very cheeky and has lots of energy! He is the 'class clown' of the giraffe herd. He gets very excited over food and can be a bit bossy at times.   p 
 p Born 2007  p 
 p Amani is gentle, and much shyer than his half-brother Thembi. He takes a little longer than the others in the group to adapt to change.  p 
 p Werribee Open Range Zoo’s six male giraffes have an extra spring in their step today.  p 
 p Thembi, Harold, Ajali, Kona, Jelani and Amani are in for an enjoyable afternoon of grazing and basking in the winter sunshine on the zoo’s Lower Savannah to celebrate a very special occasion.  p 
 p Harold the giraffe held his head high at Werribee Open Range Zoo as he celebrated his ninth birthday! In honour of the occasion, Zoos Victoria’s volunteers Terri, Val and Jane made him a special cake with giraffe friendly ingredients - lucerne, giraffe pellets, celery and carrots.  p 
 p Werribee Open Range Zoo and Shadowfax Wines have joined forces to create the perfect day of wine and wildlife at Werribee Park.  p 
 p Get up close and personal with a giraffe at Werribee Open Range Zoo and learn more about this fascinating animal.  p 
 p One small gift can change the lives of people and wildlife in Northern Kenya.  p 
 p 
          Stay up-to-date with news, events and special offers
          p 
 p 
          Help us fight wildlife extinction by making a donation today
          p 
 p 
          Every purchase you make at our online shop helps us fight extinction
          p 
