 p Glide with a shark. Wiggle with a walrus. Chirp with budgies. Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium is full of animals that will capture your heart and imagination, in habitats from tropical waters to lush bamboo forest. Explore them all here.  p 
 p Now open, the Pacific Seas Aquarium is filled with underwater delight. Stare at hammerhead sharks, gaze at green sea turtles. With Pacific Coast habitats from cold Northwest to tropical Baja California, you won’t want to leave.  p 
 p Sixteen sharks. A Blue Hole with divers-eye-view. Cage dives. A tropical lagoon, a stingray cove. The South Pacific Aquarium is an oasis of warm-water marine beauty, with vibrant fish, inspiring sharks and touchable stingrays. Dive in.  p 
 p Exotic and mysterious. Lush and green. The Asian Forest Sanctuary immerses you in a five-acre, eight-habitat oasis of waterfalls, streams and bamboo forest. From tigers to tapirs, otters to elephants – and daily keeper talks – there’s always something magical to discover.  p 
 p Swing like a lemur. Climb like a meerkat. Spread out in a web or hop like a wallaby. At Kids’ Zone you’ll find a playground where the humans get to play like the animals just nearby. Bring your littl’uns to get up close to ours – and don’t forget to feed the goats!  p 
 p Where else in the Northwest can you come nose-to-nose with a polar bear? We’ve created a habitat just like the grassy tundra near Point Hope, Alaska – and filled it with massive muskoxen, fluffy Arctic foxes and powerful polar bears.  p 
 p Wiggle with a walrus, spin like a seal. At the newly renovated Rocky Shores you can explore a far Northwest world where land and ocean meet. Seabirds nest, sea lions and seals dive, walruses splash and otters play.  p 
 p Hidden in dappled shade, two bright eyes are looking at you. You stare back. Then their owner ducks and turns, loping easily over fallen logs to settle into the sunshine. Our red wolves aren’t just beautiful – they’re part of an award-winning program that has saved this iconic species from extinction.  p 
 p Howdy, pardners! Welcome to the Town of Triple-R, where the Sheriff has four paws and the motto is Reduce, Reuse, Recycle! Our Wild Wonders Outdoor Theater live animal show, set in the Wild West, features an all-star cast of animals and keepers. Off-season, come for a Close Encounter. Giddy-up!  p 
 p Step into a world of lime, aqua and neon yellow, a world of feathers and chirps and excitement! At Budgie Buddies you don’t just get to meet friendly Aussie birds, you can feed them too with a special seed stick. (Open seasonally).  p 
 p We’re the only zoo in the Northwest where you can climb on a camel! Feel on top of the world in the comfy saddle of our dromedary camels, and pose for the perfect photo op at the same time. (Open seasonally.)  p 
 p Zoological Aide Katie Schachtsick holds a long-handled back-scratcher and applies just the right amount of pressure as she rubs it across the black-and-white hide of endangered Malayan tapir Yuna. It’s clear Yuna enjoys the attention – and the back rub – leaning into the scratcher and then moving her stout legs down, getting into a …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org tapir-ultrasound " Continued  a   p 
 p Cross your paws. And think of tiger cubs! Our endangered female Sumatran tigers, 5-year-old Kali and 4-year-old Kirana, could be pregnant. Both were artificially inseminated Jan. 30 with sperm from 14-year-old Mohan. We won’t know for a few weeks if a pregnancy resulted, but if successful, tiger cubs would be born in May. But it …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org ai-for-tigers " Continued  a   p 
 p We’re all feeling the cold right about now in the Pacific Northwest – and the rest of the country too. But here at Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium, our animals have some pretty cool ways to deal with it. From fur coats to heated hammocks, here are five ways our animals beat the winter cold. …  a href="https:  www.pdza.org 5-animals-that-beat-the-cold " Continued  a   p 
 p class="video-card__title text-ellipsis" Meet Moea the sea otter  p 
 p class="video-card__title text-ellipsis" Follow the current to the new Pacific Seas Aquarium  p 
 p class="video-card__title text-ellipsis" The adorable goat stampede  p 
 p class="video-card__title text-ellipsis" Sea turtle wellness exam  p 
 p  strong THE CHALLENGE:  strong  Our Earth’s animals need our help. Their habitats are disappearing; they are being poached or hurt by pollution. We need to act now – together.  p 
 p  strong TAKE ACTION:  strong  At Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium, we take action for animals. We support conservation campaigns and send our zoologists into the field for research. And you can help.  p 
