 p 
							 span class="img-caption" Anne Innis Dagg feeds a giraffe at the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago in 2016.  span 
							 span class="img-author" 
								 span itemprop="creator" Elaisa Vargas  span 							  span 
						  p 
 p As a young girl, Anne Innis Dagg gazed way up at the face of a giraffe in Chicago’s Brookfield Zoo and that was it. She was besotted.  p 
 p “I was three years old,” she said. “I looked at the giraffe and thought it was magnificent. And of course they are magnificent.”  p 
 p 
 span class="img-caption" 
A young Anne Innis Dagg peers up at a giraffe at the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago in 1947.  span 
 span class="img-author" 

 span itemprop="creator" Mary Quayle Innis  span   span 

  p 
 p The Toronto girl begged her mom — who was born in the U.S. and had taken her to the Illinois zoo while visiting relatives — to get her some books on the long-necked African species, but none could be found in the library.  p 
 p “I thought, well, there have to be,” recalls Dagg, now 86. “So I’m going to grow up and make the book myself.”  p 
 p Dagg would study biology at the University of Toronto and expand her knowledge of giraffes, while getting few glimpses of the animal itself, other than a return to Chicago in her teens. The Toronto Zoo now hosts a pair, but at the time there were none in southern Ontario. So in 1956, at the mere age of 23, the U of T grad made a momentous decision: she was going to Africa.  p 
 p That journey and the pioneering fieldwork she would carry out while driving around South Africa with binoculars and notepad in a used Ford Prefect she dubbed Camelo (the prefix for the latin name of the giraffe species, Camelopardalis) form the heart of a new documentary opening in Sudbury on Tuesday. span class="Apple-converted-space"    span   p 
 p The Woman Who Loves Giraffes debuted in November in Toronto, to rave reviews, and will now screen at the Indie Cinema in Sudbury on select dates until March 30. (It previously played as part of the Junction North festival.)  p 
 p The film explores the contributions Dagg — often called the “Jane Goodall of giraffes” — made to wildlife research, as well as the obstacles she encountered in a male-dominated academia.  p 
 p Director Alison Reid says she initially thought about telling Dagg’s story as a dramatic, scripted feature, but that changed when she learned the giraffe expert would be returning in 2013 to Africa. span class="Apple-converted-space"    span   p 
 p “She was going back for the first time in over half a century,” she says. “I thought that’s historic and must be recorded, so I got a small crew together and for the next five years she couldn’t shed me.”  p 
 p Dagg’s story spoke to her, she says, on a number of levels, the first being simply her spirit and drive. span class="Apple-converted-space"    span   p 
 p “She’s an adventurous, tenacious woman who followed her passions and overcame all sorts of odds,” she says.  p 
 p At the same time, however, she was snubbed by the academic establishment and her name was barely known outside of a small core of giraffe aficionados and other researchers.  p 
 p “I was astounded no-one had made a film about Anne before, because the work she did was so groundbreaking,” Reid says. “She’s an icon in the giraffe world but for some reason it didn’t seem to overlap and her name is not really well known in the general public.”  p 
 p Partly, she thinks, that’s because giraffes aren’t perceived to be as iconic or endangered as, say, elephants, polar bears or sharks — although they are arguably just as grand, and their survival is equally tenuous. span class="Apple-converted-space"    span   p 
 p It may also have something to do with Dagg being a Canadian.  p 
 p “If Anne had been American or British, would she have been more celebrated?” she wonders. “We have a tendency in Canada to not celebrate our own.”  p 
 p Chimp researcher Goodall, who has visited Sudbury a number of times, has had her story told in a variety of ways, as has the late gorilla expert Dian Fossey. span class="Apple-converted-space"    span   p 
 p Dagg, however, was actually ahead of those two — and everyone, really — in her decision to observe and document animal behaviour in the wild, making her a pioneer of not only giraffe studies but wildlife research in general.  p 
 p The scientist says she was awarded a bit of money for finishing first in her U of T master’s program, saved up some more from working part-time, and boarded a boat to the other side of the Atlantic — putting off a marriage proposal in favour of pursuing her dream.  p 
 p She was lucky enough to befriend a rancher who initially balked at the idea of a young woman staying among his male farmhands, but would become a great ally and put her up free of cost (or for a token amount of work around the farm) so she could carry out her research.  p 
 p Her first glimpse of giraffes in the wild is, of course, unforgettable.  p 
 p “I was standing by a dam and I saw two about 100 feet away,” she says. “I thought this is so exciting, these are my first giraffes, so I walked very slowly toward them.”  p 
 p The giraffes edged away from her, however, so she realized she would have to take a different approach if she ever wanted to observe them without impacting their behaviour.  p 
 p That’s where Camelo the car came in. “I had to watch them with binoculars while sitting in a car so they wouldn’t really pay attention to me,” she says. “It was awfully hot sometimes, but it was the best way to do the investigations.”  p 
 p Dagg says she has never felt nervous around giraffes, big as they are, but there were other creatures in Africa that gave her some pause for thought. Lions, for instance. Or the “two mambas I saw in a tree outside my window — that was scary, because one bite will kill you.”  p 
 p After her time in Africa, Dagg would go on to complete a PhD at the University of Waterloo and publish numerous academic articles, as well as two major works on giraffes.  p 
 p She also published a book titled MisEducation: Women &amp; Canadian Universities, which spoke to her own thwarted quests to secure tenure and funding.  p 
 p “I was devastated because I had more papers written than really anyone else in the department, more books, and my teaching record was really good,” she says. “So it was obvious it was just because I was a woman that I wasn’t allowed to become a full-time professor.”  p 
 p Dagg did receive some belated vindication, however, when the University of Guelph issued an apology this year for overlooking her tenure bid.  p 
 p The school also created a scholarship in her name that will provide $8,000 to a female biology or biodiversity student for summer research.  p 
 p “It was a very kind thing for them to do,” she says. “It’s an awful lot of money for a young student and I’m so happy that they will be able to do what I wasn’t able to do.”  p 
 p That’s one positive change the film has already helped bring about.  p 
 p The other one Dagg really hopes to see is heightened concern for the plight of giraffes, whose numbers are threatened by habitat loss and harvesting for food.  p 
 p “That’s one of the reasons I’m so excited about the film, because at the end it says if you want to give money, here are three giraffe organizations you can support,” she says. “The film mentions there are nine different subspecies, some of them having very few animals. And they may soon be none.”  p 
 p The documentary screens at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday at the Indie Cinema at 162 McKenzie Street, and will play until March 30.  p 
 p You can view the screenings calendar at  a href="http:  www.sudburyindiecinema.com" www.sudburyindiecinema.com  a .  p 
 p  a href="mailto:jmoodie@postmedia.com" jmoodie@postmedia.com  a   p 
 p Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition.  p 
 p class="copy" 
				©  span itemprop="copyrightYear" 2019  span   span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope itemtype="https:  schema.org Organization" itemid=" http:  www.postmedia.com"  span itemprop="name" Sudbury Star.  span  All rights reserved.
			 p class="restrictions" A member of Sun Media Community Newspapers part of Postmedia Network.  p 

					  span   p 
 p class="restrictions" A member of Sun Media Community Newspapers part of Postmedia Network.  p 
