 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Take a closer look at these encyclopedia books including information about animal habitats, behavior, and scientific classification.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Find quick information and fun facts with these 1-page easy resources about animals from A to Z.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Hear animal sounds for animals like anteaters, dolphins, frogs and more.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Browse our extensive collection of zoological career infobooks including animal training, animal rescue and rehabilitation and zoo careers.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Learn more about the Camp SeaWorld Internship program at SeaWorld.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" A 3-4 week clerkship for veterinary students wanting to augment their knowledge and experience in non-domestic animal medicine.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" The people of SeaWorld Parks &amp; Entertainment are truly and deeply driven to inspire on behalf of, to celebrate and connect with, and to care for the natural world we all share.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Our overarching zoological mission is to foster conservation awareness and to impart action on our park guests to preserve wild animals and wild places.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" At SeaWorld Parks &amp; Entertainment, we extend our commitment to the environment beyond our company by supporting a variety of conservation groups and programs.
  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Go behind-the-scenes to see how our trainers care for and interact with these amazing animals, and get up close with some finned, flippered, or feathered friends.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Are you wild about whales? Taken with tigers? Crazy about roller coasters? So are we! Come with us on an unforgettable journey behind the scenes during a SeaWorld or Busch Gardens Camp.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" From fun and affordable field trips for students to amazing summer adventures, our camps combine education and entertainment in a way that connects people to the sea and sea life like nowhere else.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Find a variety of free classroom activities that will keep your students engaged and excited to learn about animals.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Download free teacher guides to keep students learning in a hands-on way: includes vocabulary, classroom activities, goals and objectives.  p 
 p class="primary-nav-child__description" Come face-to-face with the wonders of wildlife through species-focused episodes and related classroom activities.   p 
 p Giraffes have a special niche in the African savanna. They are able to reach a six-foot band of foliage beyond the reach of all other terrestrial browsers except elephants. Their long tongue is useful for grasping leaves in the crowns of trees. (They also have a modified joint at the base of the skull that allows their head to extend vertically to reach the highest branches.) Giraffes only drink water every 2 to 3 days, but can drink up to 10 gallons at a time. They gather most of their water from the vegetation they eat.  p 
 p The continuous, selective browsing habits of giraffes slow the growth of favorite bush and tree species. This foraging behavior maintains the open woodlands inhabited by many African ruminants.  p 
 p (It is interesting to note that the seeds of some species of acacia trees will not germinate unless they pass through the giraffe's digestive system.)  p 
 p Several types of birds, such as the oxpecker, perch on giraffes and form a mutually beneficial relationship. The birds find food by eating parasites picked from giraffes' skin and hair. This helps giraffes because parasites potentially could weaken them physically and leave them more vulnerable to prey.  p 
 p The encroachment of human populations on their natural habitat has been devastating to the wild population, especially in West Africa.  p 
 p Mankind has historically honored giraffes. African cave paintings included them, probably as favored prey, and ancient Egyptian art frequently featured giraffe designs. In fact, giraffe tail hairs are still collected for jewelry, and the hide is used to make sandals and ceremonial shields. Some tribes treat nose bleeds with the smoke from burning giraffe skin. Unfortunately giraffes antagonize farmers more and more, often when the animals forage on crops and compete with domestic stock for resources. This conflict is likely to escalate in the future as the African human population continues to increase.  p 
 p In a cooperative effort with other AZA (Association of Zoos and Aquariums) institutions, Busch Gardens closely manages giraffe populations through a program called the Species Survival Plan (SSP), which works to improve the genetic diversity of managed animal populations.  p 
 p Benyus, Janine.  em Beastly Behaviors  em . New York: Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., 1992.  p 
 p Dagg, A.I., and Foster, J.B.  em The Giraffe: Its Biology Behavior and Ecology  em . Florida: Robert E. Publishing Co., 1982.  p 
 p Estes, R.D.  em The Safari Companion: A Guide to Watching African Mammals  em . Post Mills, Vermont: Chelsea Green Publishing Co., 1993.  p 
 p Grzimek, B. (ed.)  em Grzimek's Encyclopedia of Mammals. Vol 5.  em  New York: McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 1990.  p 
 p Kingdon, Jonathon.  em East African Mammals, An Atlas of Evolution in Africa  em . Vol. III, Part B, Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1979.  p 
 p Macdonald, David (ed.).  em The Encyclopedia of Mammals: 2  em . London: George, Allen &amp; Unwin, 1985.  p 
 p Nowak, Ronald (ed.).  em Walker's Mammals of the World. Vol. II  em , Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press, 1991.  p 
 p class="main-copyright" 
© 2019 SeaWorld Parks &amp; Entertainment, Inc. All Rights Reserved.      p 
 p 
        
      p 
 p In accordance with our  a href="https:  seaworldentertainment.com cookie-policy?webSyncID=70e42d66-8abc-c8db-0276-d9d49453e01d&amp;sessionGUID=5215e8a9-8b74-895b-2e9e-dded3e6b5749" Cookie Policy  a , we use cookies on our Websites and Apps. We have also updated our  a href="https:  seaworldentertainment.com Privacy-Policy?webSyncID=70e42d66-8abc-c8db-0276-d9d49453e01d&amp;sessionGUID=5215e8a9-8b74-895b-2e9e-dded3e6b5749" Privacy Policy  a . By continuing to browse, you agree to these policies.  p 
