 p Giraffes are native to many parts of Africa as they prefer habitats with lots of open space, rather than wooded forests. Many species of giraffes currently inhabit sub-Saharan Africa and East and North Africa. However, the giraffe is extinct in some parts of Africa, such as Nigeria. Although the giraffe is hunted for meat and hide, the biggest threat to the giraffe's survival is habitat destruction due to human activity.  p 
 p Giraffes live in open habitats, such as savannas, grasslands and open woodlands because of their height and natural diet. Savannas are tropical or subtropical grasslands, which are open ranges that offer a variety of grasses and bushes for easy reach, and woodlands, which are areas more dense in trees and provide food when grass is limited. Because a giraffe's coat is likened to leaves on a tree, it can move relatively hidden and free from predators through grasslands and sparse tree lines. Despite their love of lush tree tops, giraffes are not known to inhabit environments dominated by moist tropical forests.  p 
 p Giraffes prefer the soft top leaves of the acacia tree. However, they will also eat evergreens, thorny bushes and shrubs when fresh leaves are not available and during drought seasons. When food is readily available, a giraffe can consume up to 140 lbs. of foliage a day. Furthermore, the San Diego Zoo reports that wild giraffes generally do not compete with livestock, such as sheep and cattle, for food and rarely are seen as a threat to farmers' crops.  p 
 p Giraffes enjoy open spaces where they can maneuver unhindered, but at times males will venture into more wooded areas because they prefer to eat from tree tops rather than from the ground. Females normally will not leave the comfort and safety of open grasslands to enter into wooded areas that prevent them from seeing predatory animals. This is this due to their preference of grasses over tree tops and for the protection of their young.  p 
 p Giraffes require large quantities of water from natural water sources, such as rivers and lakes. Interestingly, giraffe means fast-walking camel leopard, as they are capable of foraging in or through more arid areas until water is available. Although, acacia leaves provide some of the giraffe's daily water, the San Diego Zoo says that if water is readily available, a giraffe can consume up to 10 gallons a day.  p 
 p At one time, herds of more than 100 giraffes were common in the wild. Now, these numbers of giraffes can only be seen at natural parks in northern Africa. Natural parks provide an environment as natural as any other part of Africa and protects the giraffes from poachers. Because herds of giraffes are constantly on the move and are not considered endangered, there is no definitive number of how many live in natural parks verses the wild. However, the San Diego Zoo reports the number of the Uganda giraffe, which is the only subspecies at risk, at a mere 445 in the wild.  p 
 p There are no set rules for giraffe herds that prevent them from moving in and out of different roaming herds, as with other herd animals. Females generally travel in herds of a dozen or so with their young and a few young males. As they mature, young males, when ready to mate, will enter bachelor herds and older males will live a solitary lifestyle seeking a female only during breeding season. In captivity, males will begin looking for a mate at 3 and 4 years old; in the wild they begin this activity at 6 to 7 years of age.  p 
 p This article was written by the CareerTrend team, copy edited and fact checked through a multi-point auditing system, in efforts to ensure our readers only receive the best information. To submit your questions or ideas, or to simply learn more about CareerTrend,  a rel="nofollow" href="    careertrend.com about-us" contact us  a .  p 
