 p class="dropdown"  a href=" MyAccount ProfileCreate" role="button" class="myConnections" id="signedOutToolbarCreateProfileButton" Create an Account  a   span class="welcomeMessage" - Increase your productivity, customize your experience, and engage in information you care about.     span   p 
 p  strong Latin Name:   strong  em Giraffa camelopardalis  em   p 
 p  strong Habitat and Range:  strong  Isolated pockets through out Africa mostly in arid and dry-Savanna zones or sub Saharan Africa wherever trees occur.  p 
 p  strong Captive wild lifespan:  strong  Captive lifespan is up to 28 years while their wild lifespan is around 20.  p 
 p  strong Gestation  strong : One calf is born after 15 months of pregnancy. Calves are born at an average of 6 feet tall and can stand within 5 minutes. 20 minutes later a calf can run close to the same speed of its mother. Giraffes do everything standing up including giving birth. When the calves are birthed they fall an average of 5 feet , this breaks the umbilical cord and jolts the calf into breathing on its own.  p 
 p  strong Diet:    strong Herbivores - Mainly Acacia Trees  p 
 p  strong Adaptations:  strong  A Giraffes Height Comes with many advantages including being one of the only Mammals to reach the tree tops of the Acacia Trees. With an average of 6 foot long legs and a 6 foot long neck they can tower 14-19 feet in height. An 18 inch long tongue gives them a little more assistance in ripping off the tender leaves from the branches. Weighing up to 2,100LBS they need massive feet to carry that weight. Their feet average 12 inches in diameter, roughly the size of a dinner plate.  p 
 p  strong IUCN status:  strong  Least Concern 2010  p 
 p  strong Conservation:  strong  Poaching, habitat loss, and degradation are the biggest threats Giraffes face. National Parks such as Waza, Boma, Zakouma and Kruger National Parks are just a few parks that concentrate on protecting and maintaining wild populations of Giraffes in Africa. There are also different animal based facilities around the globe such as AZA Accredited zoos that maintain a captive breeding population to ensure a healthy gene pool in the event of wild extinction.  p 
 p  strong Did you Know:  strong  The name "giraffe" has its earliest known origins in the Arabic word Zarafa. The name is translated as "fast walker".  p 
 p  strong Here at the CMC Zoo:  strong   Reticulated Giraffe call the Cape May County Zoo home. Joanie came to us from the Bronx Zoo in 2011. She was born on October 30, 2006 and was a first time mother in 2013. June is the oldest Giraffe in the yard as she was born on August 10, 1995.  June came to live with us later that year, from the Philadelphia Zoo. Her keepers say she has the personality of a sweet old lady. She knows the times to come in and will make her way to the barn before the other Giraffes (as it takes her a little longer!) Kifeda is our newest male baby, born here November 11, 2017 strong  br 
  strong   p 
