 p 10 a.m. - 2 p.m.  p 
 p $3 or One FUN Ticket per person  p 
 p April - October  p 
 p 10 a.m. - 2 p.m.   p 
 p Weather Dependent  p 
 p --------------------------------------------------------  p 
 p Heads up! On the Giraffe Deck, you'll be able to get eye-to-eye with these long-legged giants, an experience you'll never forget. The deck has a beautiful treetop view looking downward on the habitat, so it's a great place for group photos and for viewing our herd of giraffes. The Acacia Station Giraffe Deck is listed as "View 4" on the  a href=" visit map" Park Map  a . The giraffes may also be visible from three other free viewing areas labeled as View 1, 2 and 3 on the Park Map. Views 1 and 2 provide an upward view of the habitat and are closest to the Akiba Market.  p 
 p Please note: For their safety, the giraffe are not in the habitat during wet conditions. Giraffe move about their habitat and may not always be near the Acacia Station Giraffe Deck.  Tickets can be purchased at the Giraffe Deck or you can use FUN Tickets available at ZOO Admissions and Junction Plaza.  p 
 p Note: Children under 12 must be accompanied onto the deck by a paying adult.  p 
 p Why are the  Giraffe not out today?  p 
 p There are a number of reasons the giraffe may not be on exhibit;  the most common reason is turf conditions. If the ground is wet or muddy there is a danger of the giraffe slipping and falling. The exhibit may be closed for maintenance or if temperatures are below 45 degrees.  p 
 p I don't plan on feeding the Giraffe why do I have to pay?  p 
 p Acacia Station is a Giraffe Viewing Deck and the charge of $3 per person is for access to the deck. Feeding is optional for you and the giraffes and is not guaranteed.  p 
 p If the Giraffe leave the deck viewing feeding area how soon will they be back?  p 
 p Sometimes our Giraffe choose to walk away from the deck.  On average we have observed that they usually return within 15-20 minutes in those cases.  p 
 p Save by buying Attraction Tickets in Bulk!  p 
 p Select from many unique behind-the-scenes tours of our animal habitats with the North Carolina Zoo Society!  p 
 p Take a relaxing outing around the scenic North America lake on our pontoon-style paddle boats.  p 
