 p This page has been automatically translated,  a class="language-cta" href="https:  taronga.org.au  other-languages english" data-language="english" title="click here to view the language page" click here to view the language page  a   p 
 p Scientific Name: Giraffa camelopardalis br Common Name: Giraffe br IUCN Status: Least Concern  p 
 p Despite its great length, the structure of a giraffe’s neck is very similar to that of other mammals. They have the same number of vertebrae as humans (7), only their neck bones are elongated and much larger than ours.  p 
 p The hooves of a giraffe can be the same diameter as an adult human head. They can kick in most directions to defend themselves and their young. Giraffes have enough strength in one kick to kill a lion.  p 
 p Giraffe have a tongue which can measure up to 45cm long! This is used to pick off the leaves, shoots and buds of many African trees that have long, sharp thorns. Giraffe spend most of their day grazing. The tongue’s blue colouration acts like sunscreen, which is highly necessary.  p 
 p To drink water a giraffe must splay its front legs and bend at the knees. When their head is down a valve helps to regulate blood flow in order to prevent brain damage (and head spins!). Due to the length of their neck, a great deal of pressure is needed for blood to reach the brain (double the blood pressure of other large mammals).  p 
 p With the largest eyes of any land mammal giraffe have great eyesight and can see clearly up to 2km away. They perceive colour.  p 
 p You can meet our Giraffe at  strong Taronga Zoo Sydney  strong  and  strong Taronga Western Plains Zoo Dubbo  strong .  p 
 p  strong Life Span:   strong 20 – 28 years in captivity (15 – 20 in the wild). Only 25-50% of giraffe calves reach adulthood.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Size:   strong Tallest of all land animals. Males can be up to 6 metres in height, females up to 5 metres.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Weight:   strong Males - 1100-1900 kg; Females - 700-1100kg; At birth, calves can weigh 45-70kg.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong Collective Noun:   strong Herd (nursery herd  = crèche)  p 
 p You can support people and wildlife in north Africa. Buy beads today! All profit is returned to communities in Kenya’s Northern Rangeland Trust.  p 
 p  a href="https:  taronga.org.au caretaker-period-nsw-election" target="_blank" NSW Caretaker Period  - The caretaker period for the NSW Election commenced 1 March 2019  a   p 
 p Follow us  p 
 p © 2019 Taronga.org.au  p 
