 p class="header-p" 
							 span class="icon-info" 
								 img src=" content dam wrs commons icons icon-info.png" alt="info" 
							  span 
							 span class="text"  span class="red-hightlight" The following exhibit will be closed due to upgrading works: br 
  br 
 1.  b White Tiger   b (6 Mar - 3 May 2019)  span   span 
						  p 
 p class="label" Opening hours  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p class="label" Singapore Zoo  p 
 p 8.30am - 6.00pm (Last entry at 5.30pm)  p 
 p class="label" Rainforest Kidzworld  p 
 p 9.00am - 6.00pm  p 
 p Lifespan  p 
 p 20 to 25 years under human care  p 
 p Diet  p 
 p seed pods and fruits  p 
 p Habitat  p 
 p or open woodland  p 
 p Range  p 
 p continent  p 
 p Our giraffes are fed Australian hay and leaves from local starfruit, jackfruit and acacia trees. Bunches of leaves are hoisted high up in the trees to encourage the giraffes to display their natural behaviour of feeding off the highest leaves. They also take vegetables like carrots. Salt lick blocks supplement their diet with necessary minerals – in the wild, giraffes would eat soil rich in salt and other minerals. Water troughs are placed at comfortable heights.  p 
 p    p 
 p The tough leathery tongue of the giraffe may reach a length of 53cm and works like a hand to grasp leaves from branches. The lack of incisors and canines on its upper jaw allows the tongue to move unhindered during feeding. The giraffe may draw whole branches into its mouth and outward-facing canines on its lower jaw helps to ‘release’ leaves when it’s done feeding. It coats leaves (especially thorny acacia) in its thick, sticky saliva for efficient swallowing.  p 
 p    p 
 p In the wild, giraffes need to get down to a very awkward position to drink water. In this position, they are vulnerable to attacks by lions. Males grow to almost 6m, females up to 5m. When they lower their head from such heights to the ground, the elastic walls in their carotid artery (carrying blood from heart to brain) swell to contain the extra blood and prevent it from rushing to the head. When they get back up after they’ve drunk their fill, special valves in their veins slow down the flow of blood away from the brain.  p 
 p    p 
 p The tight skin on the giraffe’s lower legs maintain pressure and ensure blood does not pool in their legs, despite the force of gravity on the huge amount of blood in their body. Scientists have studied the giraffe extensively to design g-suits for fighter pilots. That’s g for gravity, not giraffe. During high g-force maneouvres, these tight-fitting trousers exert pressure on the pilots’ abdomen and legs to prevent blood-pooling and consequent loss of consciousness.  p 
 p    p 
 p  Learn more about our wildlife from the people who know best – the keepers. In this interactive session, hear interesting quirks of the animals from our keepers.  p 
 p Besides habitat loss and change due to expanding agricultural and mining activities, giraffes in the wild are threatened by increased human-wildlife conflict, illegal hunting and civil unrest. A dramatic 40% decline has been recorded over 20 years, hence its up-listing from Least Concern to Vulnerable.  p 
 p The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is widely recognized as the most comprehensive, objective global approach for evaluating the conservation status of plant and animal species.  p 
 p At relatively low risk of extinction  p 
 p Likely to become vulnerable in the near future  p 
 p At high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At very high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p At extremely high risk of extinction in the wild  p 
 p Survives only in captivity  p 
 p No surviving individuals in the wild or in captivity  p 
 p We're open every day of the year.  p 
 p 80 Mandai Lake Road Singapore 729826   p 
 p class="copy"  span © Copyright 2018, Wildlife Reserves Singapore Group. All rights reserved.  span   p 
