 p We sent you SMS, for complete subscription please reply.  p 
 p Wonder of the Day  strong #515  strong   p 
 p class="rs_skip" 
					  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?category=science" SCIENCE  a  					  —  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?sub_category=life-science" Life Science  a  				  p 
 p Today’s Wonder of the Day was inspired by Bellla from Wauseon, OH.  em Bellla Wonders  em , “ strong Why do giraffes have long necks?  strong ” Thanks for WONDERing with us, Bellla!  p 
 p class="intro" Imagine being able to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-peer" title="look searchingly" peer  span   a  into a second-story window without needing to stand on your tiptoes. Welcome to a  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-long-is-a-giraffes-tongue" target="_blank" giraffe  a 's life. As the  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder who-is-the-tallest-person-in-the-world" target="_blank" tallest   a creature in the animal kingdom, the giraffe has a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-view" title="the visual percept of a region" view  span   a  that can't be beat.  p 
 p The giraffe's long neck can reach more than 7 feet in length, which means it makes up nearly  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-half" title="one of two equal parts of a divisible whole" half  span   a  of its overall  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder are-you-afraid-of-heights" target="_blank"   a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-height" title="the measurement of someone or something from head to foot or from base to top" height  span   a . Just like humans, giraffes have seven  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-vertebrae" title="the bony segments of the spinal column" vertebrae  span   a  in their necks, but theirs — unlike ours — can each be over 10 inches long.   p 
 p There are a couple of theories about why giraffes have such long necks. Some scientists believe it's simply a matter of natural selection. Giraffes fight by beating each other with their heads and necks. This is called “necking."  p 
 p Male giraffes  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-whip" title="thrash about flexibly in the manner of a whiplash" whip  span   a  their necks around, using their heavy  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-skulls" title="(plural) the bony skeleton of the head of vertebrates" skulls  span   a  like  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-clubs" title="(plural) stout stick that is larger at one end" clubs  span   a . The longer and thicker the neck, the more likely a giraffe is to win a fight. Giraffes that are successful in fights are more likely to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-breed" title="have young; used of animals" breed  span   a  and produce  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-offspring" title="the immediate descendants of a person" offspring  span   a .  p 
 p Others believe long necks are a result of competition for food. Giraffes share their  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-habitat" title="the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs" habitat  span   a  with lots of other animals — a lot of shorter animals. These shorter creatures also need to eat, snacking on plants and  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-foliage" title="the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants; leaves" foliage  span   a  at a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-height" title="the measurement of someone or something from head to foot or from base to top" height  span   a  that may not even reach giraffes' knees.  p 
 p Since these shorter creatures pick over food at a lower level, giraffes' necks allow them to reach food and nutrients that others cannot. This becomes especially important for  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-survival" title="a state of surviving; remaining alive" survival  span   a  in habitats where food can become  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-scarce" title="deficient in quantity or number compared with the demand" scarce  span   a  and  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-droughts" title="(plural) a shortage of rainfall" droughts  span   a  are fairly common. Giraffes can feed close to the ground, too, but research has shown that they prefer to eat at heights between 7 and 14 feet.  p 
 p Some people suggest giraffes' long necks are a sort of early  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-warning" title="a message informing of danger" warning  span   a  system, allowing them to spot approaching  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder are-horses-predators-or-prey" target="_blank" predators  a . Most biologists say this theory is not likely, though. They suspect we would see many more animals with long necks if this were a real advantage and useful form of self-protection.  p 
 p Giraffes have very few predators. Besides humans, giraffes are hunted only by lions and  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-strong-are-a-crocodiles-jaws" target="_blank" crocodiles  a . When necessary, giraffes defend themselves with a very powerful (and deadly) kick, and then make a run for it at speeds up to 30 miles per hour. br   strong   strong   p 
 p class="thanks" We’d like to thank:  p 
 p 																			 span Nick  span  from IL, 																																				 span brittnay  span  from OH, 																																				 span Elizabeth  span  from IN, 																																				 span Renee  span  from GA, and 																																				 span Amy  span  from MN																									 br  for contributing questions about today’s Wonder topic!
							  p 
 p class="keep-wondering" Keep WONDERing with us!  p 
 p Better bring your sunglasses. We’re going fishing in Wonderopolis tomorrow!  p 
 p Are you ready to learn even more about giraffes? Be sure to check out the following activities with a friend or family member:  p 
 p class="thanks" We’d like to thank:  p 
 p 
																								 span Nick  span  from IL, 																																 span brittnay  span  from OH, 																																 span Elizabeth  span  from IN, 																																 span Renee  span  from GA and 																																 span Amy  span  from MN																						 br  for contributing questions about today’s Wonder topic!
						  p 
 p class="keep-wondering" Keep WONDERing with us!  p 
 p I think this is vary help full.   p 
 p Thanks, cj! We're happy to help you learn more about giraffes!   p 
 p Um, hi This topic needs a bit more information......Thanks  p 
 p Hi, Bret! Did you have a specific question about giraffes that wasn't answered in this Wonder?   p 
 p Well, it just that sometime I have to write a 5 paragraph essay and this isn't enough info. to do so....  p 
 p Thanks for letting us know! Our Wonders are meant to be introductions to topics, and if you find a Wonder that is particularly interesting, we encourage you to take a Wonder Journey to find more information! Have you visited your local library to see what information you can find about giraffes? Thanks for WONDERing with us, Bret!  p 
 p I loved this article because I really loved giraffes. I ask this question all the time and the question was answered in the article.  p 
 p We are so glad that we could help you find this answer and learn more about giraffes, Reegan! Thanks for being our Wonder Friend!  p 
 p hay i have ben wundering can a blue jay win a stareing contes with an owl?
  p 
 p That...is a very specific question.  Seems like it would be very hard to test that one out.  We would probably pick the owl to win that one, though.  Thanks for WONDERing, Asia!  p 
 p what is this about agin  p 
 p Giraffes!  Aren't they amazing, Trista?  Have you ever seen one up close at the zoo before?  p 
 p Hey,I just wanted to say giraffes are my best friends 
I would live with them If I could I also love wonderopolis .
  p 
 p mine too! I love grafes so much i even had a brthday for them!!!!!!!!!!!!  p 
 p Thank you for sharing your comment with us, Joyce! We love giraffes too. They're so majestic and beautiful!  p 
 p Gee thanks.😁  p 
 p 😄😁  p 
 p Thanks you guys are like my best friends 😃😃  p 
 p We're really glad to be your Wonder Friend, Joyce! 😁  p 
 p I loved today`s wonder!  p 
 p WONDERful, Lucy! It's GREAT when we're learning and having fun, too! :)  p 
 p there's no facts in this story at all   p 
 p Thanks for sharing your thoughts about this Wonder, Annabelle! We value your opinion! :)  p 
 p My class really enjoyed this wonder and we learned lots of things!  p 
 p WONDERful, Mrs. Tharp! We're THRILLED you're WONDERing with us! :)  p 
 p thats awesome  p 
 p We're glad you liked this Wonder, Elaine! Giraffes are AWESOME animals! :)  p 
 p Isn't the solution to Giraffes' long necks is the theory of evolution established by Darwin? But it is still a very helpful resource to learn! Nice job Wonderopolis!   p 
 p Hi, AF! We're glad you're still WONDERing! We encourage you to embark on your own Wonder Journey to learn more! :)  p 
 p Giraffes look so amazing! Why they are not common although they don't have many predators?  p 
 p We like giraffes, too, Wonder Friend! They are WONDERful animals! We encourage you to keep researching about them at your library and online! :)  p 
 p They have long necks in order to reach food on the trees!  p 
 p That's right, EJ! Thanks for sharing what you learned! We know from WONDERing, they prefer to eat at heights of 7-14 feet! :)  p 
 p Giraffes need their long necks to survive dont they?  p 
 p Hi, Alazay! We hope this Wonder was helpful! Always keep WONDERing! :)  p 
 p Yes, I understand why giraffes have evolved with long necks- they help them to survive. But why have not more animals done the same? Or have they faced competition from giraffes, and become extinct?   p 
 p hi
  p 
 p Hi, julian! We're THRILLED you're WONDERing with us! Thanks for stopping by! :)  p 
 p Great question, Maurice! Many animals have adapt to their environments in order to survive. Another example is camouflage. Many animals blend in with their surroundings as a way to protect themselves and hide from predators. Check out  these related  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonders?category=&amp;subcategory=&amp;order_by=&amp;q=camouflage" WONDERS  a  about camouflage. We also encourage you to continue researching this topic at your library. Happy WONDERing! :)  p 
 p I need a question from this article  p 
 p Hi, Wonder Friend! Thanks for stopping by! We hope this Wonder was helpful! :)  p 
 p I love Giraffes and when I went to the zoo I was amazed at how tall they were.  p 
 p It is amazing, Sofia! Getting the opportunity to go to the zoo is WONDERful! :)  p 
 p I really liked seeing the giraffes.  p 
 p WONDERful, Breanna! We are so glad that you enjoyed this Wonder! Keep WONDERing! :-)  p 
 p We were wondering why their tongues are PURPLE and BLACK! and how much a giraffe can weigh when he is born!  How are the babies fed if they can't reach?
Do they nuzzle each other to show affection?  We see this on cards all of the time :)
And what is with their pattern?  It is similar to a leopard's and makes us think they are mimicking.  We are really wondering this morning!  p 
 p Hello to our Wonder Friends in Mrs. Reyna's 4th Grade Homeroom! How luck we are to Wonder with you today! :) 

We are so very proud of all your WONDERful questions about giraffes - we hope you'll do some more research of your own to find the answers to these terrific Wonders! Here is a SUPER place to begin your research: http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals giraffe  :)  p 
 p We are still wondering about why giraffes fight other giraffes and how big a giraffe baby could be.  We were also thinking about the similarities between a giraffe and some long necked dinosaurs...could they be distant cousins?  p 
 p Thanks so much for WONDERing with us, Mrs. Stringer's 4th Grade Homeroom! We think it's WONDERful that you've been thinking of all the cool connections between giraffes and other animals - even if they're extinct (like dinosaurs)! We hope you'll continue to Wonder about giraffes, their lives and their habitats, to find the answers to your awesome questions. HOORAY for you, Wonder Friends! :)  p 
 p Well, they have long necks because they reach their food in the trees.  The giraffe only lives to be about 25 years old.  The horns on the giraffe's head are not for defense.  It uses it to push the branches out of the way so they can get more food.  p 
 p Hey there, Casimiro, thank you for adding to our giraffe Wonder! We really appreciate that you shared even more awesome information to Wonder about! You rock! :)  p 
 p Wonderopolis,
Thank you very much for providing this wonderful video about giraffes. The video has really inspired us to WONDER and then find answers to our questions about giraffes. We had a lot of fun and enjoyed our time learning.
-Mrs. Pruetz's 4th Grade Orange Group  p 
 p That is SO AWESOME, Mrs. Pruetz's 4th Grade Orange Group!  We are SUPER PROUD of you guys for WONDERing more about giraffes on your own!  Please let us know some of the cool new facts you find out about giraffes, OK?  We LOVE learning from our Wonder Friends like YOU, too!  :-)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis!
I was very interested when I found this topic!  I love giraffes!  One new fact that I learned was that giraffes fight by beating each other with their heads and necks, and that this process is called "necking".  I also didn't know that giraffes have a deadly kick, and that they can run up to 30 miles per hour!!  I also learned two knew vocabulary words!  One is drought, which means that there is hardly any water or rain in an area.  Another vocabulary word that I learned was scarce, which means that a natural resource, animal species, etc... is hard to find or is very limited!  I have always WONDERED how giraffes get so tall?  I have also been WONDERING what the average height is for a giraffe?  Thanks for having this WONDER topic be so WONDERFUL!!
        -Team McNeil 9 :)  p 
 p You really learned some GREAT facts about giraffes, Team McNeil 9...way to go!  We think those awesome vocabulary words you learned will also help you as you study more about science, animals, habitats and LOTS of other topics!  Thanks for leaving us another SUPER comment!  :-)  p 
 p Wonderopolis,

We are students at Condit Elementary and we are in the fifth grade yellow group.  We enjoyed reading and listening to the information about giraffes.  We generated a list of questions and voted for one more thing to find out about giraffes. We would like to know if there is an animal that the giraffe is thought to have evolved from?  
Mrs. Campbell's Fifth Grade Yellow Group  p 
 p Hi there, Mrs. Campbell’s 5th Grade Yellow Group!  We think it's REALLY awesome that you guys are WONDERing more about giraffes after you explored this Wonder about them together!  

We like your WONDER questioning which animal giraffes may have evolved from!  One of the AMAZING things about exploring Wonderopolis is that you get to learn a little about something that interests you, then you can do more WONDERing on your own! We like to think of it as going on a “Wonder Journey” to find out more information! We don't know the answer to every question here in Wonderopolis, but we like to learn new things just like YOU do!  We encourage each of you to embark on your own Wonder Journey to find the answers to your AWESOME question about giraffes!

You can WONDER more by exploring books and websites, and also by asking people who are knowledgeable about the topics that interest you! :-)  p 
 p Wonderopolis,
Our fourth grade yellow group also enjoyed your information on giraffes. They had some questions about giraffes around the world too. We would like to know how tall and heavy the largest giraffe in all of history has been?
Mrs. Campbell's fourth grade yellow group.  p 
 p Hi, Mrs. Campbell’s 4th Grade Yellow Group!  Thanks so much for hanging out in Wonderopolis today and for letting us know you enjoyed learning about giraffes!  We're not sure how tall and heavy the largest giraffe in all of history has been, but that's something that would be FUN to learn about!  :-)  p 
 p Wonderopolis,
We enjoyed your post about giraffes.  We all had some questions that were not answered in your video and we voted on one to ask you.  We are curious to know more information about a giraffe's heart.  Is it bigger than a human heart?  We know that the heart gives out after about 25 years, but we wonder if it proportionately bigger than our heart?
Mrs. Campbell Fifth Grade Blue Group
Condit Elementary  p 
 p We're so glad you WONDERed about giraffes today, Mrs. Campbell's Fifth Grade Blue Group!  You guys are AWESOME!  We found this interesting resource to share with you that gives ALL SORTS of great information about giraffes:  http:  www.sandiegozoo.org animalbytes t-giraffe.html.  It even says that a giraffe's heart is 2 feet long and weighs 25 pounds...that's BIG!  :-)

Thanks for visiting this Wonder of the Day® and for leaving us a comment!  :-)  p 
 p Thanks for a great wonder.  Giraffes are my favorite animal, but I think more could of been in the article!  p 
 p We really appreciate you letting us know what you thought about this Wonder on giraffes, Megan!  Thanks so much for sharing that you wished there was even more to WONDER about!  YOU ROCK!  :-)  p 
 p Hi! In this article, I learned some new facts about giraffes. One of them is that they can run 30 miles per hour! Another thing I learned is that their necks reach more than 7 feet tall! Also I learned what necking is-when they fight. Finally, I learned the word foliage. I do have one question; how long are the young giraffes necks when they are born? 
                          Thanks for making me wonder!  p 
 p Hello, Team Unger 8!  We're super glad you learned so much about giraffes by exploring this Wonder about them!  You can learn even MORE about them and their long necks by visiting this cool page on the San Diego Zoo’s website: http:  www.sandiegozoo.org animalbytes t-giraffe.html.  :-)  p 
 p Hi my name is Bob. I like Giraffes!  p 
 p Hello, Bob!  We think giraffes are pretty awesome, too!  Thanks so much for visiting Wonderopolis!  :-)  p 
 p I love giraffes.  p 
 p They're pretty awesome, Kamryn, we agree!  :-)  p 
 p Giraffes have long necks because they use them to eat leaves. I also noticed that they have long legs, long tongues and long tails.  p 
 p You're RIGHT, Landon!  Giraffes DO have LONG legs, tongues and tails!  Thanks for pointing that out to us...we really appreciate your comment!  :-)  p 
 p Hey!, I think giraffes are really cool animals, I bet those necks help a lot. If I had a long neck, I don't know what I would do with it, but somehow giraffes use them! I really enjoyed this wonder today! Bye for now, I'm going to comment on the wonder of the day!  p 
 p Hi, Carry!  We think it's cool that you tried to imagine what it might be like to have a long neck like a giraffe!  Thanks for leaving us this GREAT comment!  :-)  p 
 p I think giraffes have long necks so they can get leaves from trees.  p 
 p That's a VERY good reason to have a long neck, isn't it, Alex?  We WONDER if the leaves at the top of the tree taste better to animals than the lower leaves?  :-)  p 
 p Because that's the way they were born.  p 
 p You're right, Shirley!  Giraffes ARE born with long necks!  Thanks for sharing your comment with us today!  :-)  p 
 p Well, to reach their food of course!  p 
 p That's one of the reasons, you are RIGHT, Mak!  Way to go!  :-)  p 
 p We are still wondering how tall a teenager giraffe is?  How long are girl giraffes?  We learned giraffes are 15 feet tall.  Giraffes kick and bend necks when they see predators.  Giraffes have long necks to see predators.  Giraffes are the tallest land animals in the world.  p 
 p We're so glad to hear from you today, Mr. Flinn’s Kindergarten Class, and are excited that you want to learn even more about giraffes after exploring this Wonder about them!  We found some really cool websites that have more detailed information about giraffes...check these out:

http:  kids.nationalgeographic.com kids animals creaturefeature giraffe 
http:  www.sandiegozoo.org animalbytes t-giraffe.html
http:  www.cmzoo.org exhibitsAttractions giraffes giraffeFacts.asp

Happy WONDERing!  :-)  p 
 p Good Wonder!! This made my brother think why giraffes have long necks!  Thanks very much!

Landon  p 
 p Hi, Landon!  We're so glad you explored this Wonder of the Day® with your brother!  It makes us super happy to hear when families like learning TOGETHER!  :-)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,
Cool wonder! I have no idea why giraffes have long necks! I think tomorrow's wonder is about bugs.
XOXOXOXOXO,
Paige ;)  p 
 p Hi, Paige!  We encourage you to re-explore this Wonder of the Day® about giraffes...it has GREAT information about why they have long necks!  :-)  p 
 p I didn't really know all that about Giraffes!  What I really appreciated is that they can see a predator a mile away and that they can run as fast as a race horse!!! THANKS!  p 
 p Those are two AWESOME facts about giraffes, Madalynn!  Thanks for sharing what you learned by exploring this Wonder of the Day®!  :-)  p 
 p I love giraffes!!!!!!!! I love their pattern it is beautiful!!!!!! What is your favorite animal print??  p 
 p We love your enthusiasm for WONDER, Hannah!  Thank you for making us smile today with your happy comment!  We like the patterns different animals "wear," too!  We think of each animal's print as a WONDERful work of art!  :-)  p 
 p It's my friend, Hannah Gibbs' birthday!!! You should say happy b-day.  Yay.  p 
 p That's super sweet of you to think of your friend, Hannah, in such a way, Devan!  Happy birthday from everyone in Wonderopolis, Hannah!  :-)  p 
 p Hello Wonderopolis!
I absolutely &lt;3 your website. I would like to ask a favor. I suffer from milk allergies. Could you do a wonder to educate others about it? I was also wondering could you make a small donation to FAAN a reasearch team for finding a cure. It would really mean a lot to me and others.
Thanks,
Emmz  p 
 p Hi, Emmz!  We are so happy to hear that you love visiting Wonderopolis!  A future Wonder about milk allergies is a GREAT idea!  Thanks so much for suggesting it!  We never knew there was a network for people with food allergies (FAAN).  Thank you for teaching US something new today!  For those Wonder Friends who would like to learn more about food allergies, you can visit the FAAN website:  http:  www.foodallergy.org .  :-)  p 
 p I    LOVE    THIS    WONDER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!GIRAFFES    ARE   SOOOOOOOOOOOOOO   CUTE!!!!!!  p 
 p We think giraffes are cute, too, Heather!  Thanks for visiting Wonderopolis today and for letting us know you loved this Wonder!  :-)  p 
 p Hi Wonderopolis!
I loved this wonder. I wanted to ask you a 
quick question. Can you do a wonder about
milk allergies? I suffer every day with them.
You changed my life with the peanut allergy
wonder. I am keeping the faith.  p 
 p Hi, Food Allergy Girl!  We're really glad to learn that visiting the peanut allergy Wonder of the Day® helped you in some way!  We think a future Wonder about milk allergies is a GREAT idea, too...thanks so much for suggesting it and for being a SUPER Wonder Friend!  :-)  p 
 p Dear wonderoplis. Thanks for saying I rock. You and your website rock, too.  Ella :)  p 
 p We just got great big smiles on our faces from reading your comment, Ella!  Thanks for being such an AMAZING Wonder Friend!  :-)  p 
 p We have just been introduced to this exciting website.  Thanks for sharing all these wonders with us.  We are learning a lot.

Here are our predictions about tomorrow's wonder:
Cat: A cat got your tongue!
Anteater:  We liked someone els'se idea that they might get their tongue stuck in a knot.
Fuzzy  p 
 p Welcome to Wonderopolis, Gallagher Gang!  We're really glad you guys have been learning a lot on your visits here...it makes our day to hear that!  We think your predictions about tomorrow's Wonder ROCK!  :-)  p 
 p Giraffes are cool. They have really long necks. Now I really want to go to the zoo and see the giraffes.  p 
 p We think a trip to the zoo sounds like so much fun, AP!  Thanks for visiting Wonderopolis today and leaving us this great comment to let us know you were here!  :-)  p 
 p How big can a Giraffe get. What is the tallest Giraffe on record.  p 
 p Hi, David!  We will have to do some more WONDERing about the tallest giraffe ever on record, but we DID find another cool Guinness World Record about giraffes...Largest Collection of Giraffes!  A lady in Germany has 2,443 giraffe items she has collected over the years!  You can read about her here:  http:  www.guinnessworldrecords.com records-3000 largest-collection-of-giraffes .  :-)  p 
 p Our class was surprised that giraffes aren't as smart as other animals. It's crazy that when giraffes are born they are as tall as an average adult. We also didn't know that they have the highest blood pressure of all animals and the deadliest kick. The video was funny. Those tongues were so long! 
:P  p 
 p Thanks for sharing some of the awesome things you learned together in Wonderopolis today, Ms. Blevins’ Class!  It makes us super happy to hear that you thought the video was funny, too!  :-)  p 
 p I wish I was a giraffe so that I could have a long neck!  p 
 p We think it's so cool that you WONDER what it would be like to be a giraffe with a SUPER long neck, Jonathan!  We think you and Cassidy (see her comment above) have something in common (besides being GREAT Wonder Friends!).  You both thought about things from a giraffe's point of view!  :-)  p 
 p Dear wonderopolis.  I love the video, that is an AMAZING!!!!!!!!! Wonder!  I was wondering the same thing, but I know...because they need to eat off of high branches.  p 
 p Hi, Kaitlyn!  Thanks so much for letting us know you liked the video for today's Wonder of the Day®!  We really appreciate your comment!  :-)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,
Our class from Room 305 liked the giraffe video.  Can you please find a video to explain why giraffes have such long tongues?  The giraffes were so cute!  Are they really as "dumb as a sack of hammers"?  The video was funny--our entire class loved it.
Have a great day!
Kids in Room 305
PS-Ella logs onto Wonderopolis each morning before school and she posts her own comment!  She loves this site!  So do we!  p 
 p Hello, Mrs. Kennedy’a Class!  We're SO GLAD you guys liked the video for today's Wonder!  Here is a link to the giraffe page on the San Diego Zoo's website:  http:  www.sandiegozoo.org animalbytes t-giraffe.html.  We think you will really like the video (it's about a cute baby giraffe), but there are also facts about the giraffe's tongue under the "Fun Facts" section on the left!  

Thanks so much for being GREAT Wonder Friends and WONDERing more about giraffes!  We're proud of you!

P.S.  Ella rocks!  :-)  p 
 p Here are some of our thoughts and questions about giraffes:

1. How do they get so tall?
2. How much do they grow in a year?
3. About how much food do they eat in a meal?
4. How high can they get?
5. What kind of leaves do they eat?
6. What do they eat in the winter?
7. How much food does a older giraffe eat?
8. How do you tell the difference between a male and a female giraffe?
9. How are baby giraffes born?
10. How can you tell how old they are?


Here are some predictions about tomorrow's Wonder of the Day:

1. The tongue twister "How much wood would a woodchuck chuck?"
2. A monkey
3. an anteater--it has a long tongue and might get it stuck in a knot.


          :) :) :)  p 
 p Your comments always make our day, New Century School 2 3 Class–Verona, WI!  Way to go with the FANTASTIC extra WONDERing again today!  You guys ROCK!  We really like your thoughts and questions about giraffes and love your predictions about tomorrow's Wonder of the Day®, too!  Have a TERRIFIC Thursday!  :-)  p 
 p I love giraffes. That is the second animal I love. :)  p 
 p They are really neat animals, sassycat923!  Thank you for sharing this great comment with us today and for letting us know you love giraffes!  :-)  p 
 p Okay, so I kinda don't get it.  If they just use their long necks to fight, what else do they use it for?  They also use them for food to eat leaves off of trees, couldn't they?  Thats why I thought they had long necks... they said it was a competition for food, why a competition that's like really weird... Oh, I get why they called it a competition now, because they live with a lot of other animals, shorter animals and they have to eat so.. I get it...  p 
 p Thanks for showing us how you worked through answering some of the questions you had about giraffes by exploring this Wonder of the Day®, Sydney!  It helps other Wonder Friends to see that sometimes if you do a little extra WONDERing, it helps to make your Wonderopolis learning adventure even better!  :-)  p 
 p Hi, wonderopolis.  I am from room 305. I liked all your videos. Your website is awesome. Ella  p 
 p Happy Thursday, Ella!  We're so glad to hear that you like exploring Wonderopolis and learning new things!  Please tell your classmates in room 305 that we said, "hello!"  :-)  p 
 p Giraffes are cool to see at zoo!!  p 
 p Yes they are, Shundee!  It is always fun to see them reach their long necks...we WONDER how they balance sometimes!  :-)  p 
 p Hey, guys.  I never knew that Giraffes had only two predators. I thought they had like 20 or at least 10.  Like maybe a Jaguar or a Mountain Lion.  Well, for the Mountain lio,n there are two theories.  One, the Giraffe could wander off into the Mountains.  Two, the Mountain Lion could run out of food and wander off into the habitat where the Giraffes live. But, anyway, I have to go. Maybe I will comment today again if I get the chance.  Bye.  p 
 p Your thinking about giraffes and mountain lions wandering into each other's habitat is super smart, Austin!  We're proud of you for doing some extra WONDERing about the predator vs. prey relationship!  Thanks for visiting this Wonder today!  :-)  p 
 p I think that giraffes are cool because they have really long necks and they have spots on them that make them look cool. I've always wondered what it would be like to be a giraffe for a day or two. I think that it would be cool. Although I don't think that I would really want to be a giraffe, because I don't want to be eaten by a lion or a crocodile.  p 
 p We really like how you WONDERed more about giraffes and what it might be like to be one of them for a day, Cassidy!  That's some CREATIVE thinking...way to go!  :-)  p 
 p Giraffes are AWESOME and tall but they are still cool!!!!!  p 
 p We think so, too, Mark!  Giraffes ARE awesome and cool!  Thanks for stopping by Wonderopolis today and leaving us this comment!  :-)  p 
 p I was glad to learn that a baby giraffe is really tall.  They are five to six feet tall,
and that's only when they are born. 
Can't wait until tomorrow's wonder!!!!
Thanks Adel!!!!!!!  p 
 p Thanks for sharing a fun fact you learned about baby giraffes today, Adel!  We think it's AWESOME that you can't wait to visit tomorrow's Wonder...we LOVE hearing that!  :-)  p 
 p Madalyn was so excited to see today's wonder. She brought home an "N" book from school yesterday that talked about giraffes having long Necks. She says that she knows why they have long necks ... "they grow their long necks for when they need them and their big bodies are so they could help themselves and they have long necks so they can protect since other animals try to eat their faces first" There is some Kindergarten logic for you!  p 
 p We think Madalyn's logic is clever and creative!  We appreciate her view of WONDER and the world and we hope she knows she has BIG FANS here in Wonderopolis!  :-)  p 
 p Hey, Wonder Friends! We LOVE hearing from you and want you to join our
                Wonder conversation! Before you submit your comment, please remember:  p 
 p Comments are subject to approval and may not be published if they are not appropriate for the Wonder discussion. Thanks!  p 
 p  span How Much Information Can We Memorize?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does the Sky Change Color at Sunrise and Sunset?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does Cold Air Feel Crisp?  span   p 
 p  span How Do Mobile Phones Affect the Ecosystem?  span   p 
 p  span Are Naps Good for the Human Body?  span   p 
 p #515  p 
 p class="hint for-big"  span class="orange" Drag  span  a word to its  span class="green" definition  span   p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="for-small" Select a Wonder Word:  p 
 p class="for-small" Match its definition:  p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="border" You’ve matched all of the definitions correctly.  p 
 p #515  p 
 p class="top" Question  b 1  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Question  b 2  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Question  b 3  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Quiz Results  p 
 p You have answered  b id="fnc-num-answered" 0  b  of  b 3  b  questions correctly and your score is:
                          p 
 p Subscribe to Wonderopolis and receive
            the Wonder of the Day® via email or SMS  p 
 p Don’t miss our special deals, gifts and promotions. Be the first to know!  p 
 p Tell everybody about Wonderopolis and its wonders.  p 
 p Interested in sharing Wonderopolis® every day? Want to add a little wonder to your website? Help spread the wonder of families learning together.  p 
 p 2014–2019 © National Center for Families Learning  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-do-giraffes-have-long-necks  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" © National Center for Families Learning (NCFL)  p 
