 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  strong We will open for our 2019 season on April 6th.  strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 14pt;"  strong  span style="font-size: 10pt;" See you in the spring!  span   strong   span   p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  span style="font-size: 10pt;"  strong  a href="https:  gallifords.com " Galliford's Restaurant &amp; Tavern:  a  Open Year-Round  strong   span   p 
 p  span style="color: #ff0000; font-size: 14pt;"  strong  span style="font-size: 18pt;" Giraffe Encounters have ended for the 2018 season. br 
They will resume in mid May of 2019.  span  br 
  strong   span   p 
 p  strong Weather Permitting:   strong Giraffe encounters are available as long as it is at least 60°F and not raining. If the weather looks questionable, please give us a call at 1-800-258-9182 to find out whether or not they are available that day.  p 
 p  strong Saturdays and Sundays Only br 
(including holidays)  strong   p 
 p  strong 11:30 am  strong  br 
 strong 1:30 pm  strong  br 
 strong 3:30 pm  strong   p 
 p  strong $20 per ticket  strong  br 
Tickets are limited and sell out quickly! br 
Tickets  span style="text-decoration: underline;" cannot  span  be reserved, so be sure to arrive early.  p 
 p  strong Note:   strong The giraffe habitat is open daily during the season for all zoo visitors to view our giraffes.  p 
 p Giraffe Encounters include a short presentation followed by the amazing experience of getting up close &amp; personal to feed these beautiful creatures.  strong Please do not try to touch or pet the giraffes during your encounter  strong .  p 
 p Tickets are limited for Giraffe Encounters and can be purchased at the rental booth for cash or credit.  Giraffe Encounters  strong  em cannot  em   strong  be reserved and are available on a first come, first served basis.  We advise you to please purchase your tickets for Giraffe Encounters  span style="text-decoration: underline;" early  span  on the day of your visit as they often sell out very quickly and we have a limited supply per each feeding.  p 
 p Prepare to be amazed viewing giraffes, lions, tigers, white rhinos, and chimpanzees in our beautiful 200 acres of naturalistic habitats. Southwick’s Zoo is home to 850 exotic animals from around the world and our interactive exhibits are fun for all ages. Stroll leisurely through our 35 acre deer forest, where the deer roam free or ride the Woodlands Express train ride through the North American Elk habitat and wetlands. View the African Plains and other animal exhibits from new heights on our Skyfari Skyride.  p 
 p Learn about your favorite wild animals, such as a kangaroo, armadillo or chameleon at the EARTH Discovery Center. Get up close and personal with farm animals, featuring chickens, goats and alpacas at our Petting Zoo. Parakeet Landing will offer you the chance to see and hear exotic birds. Don’t miss out on animal presentations, our kid’s play park, pony and camel rides, kiddie rides and so much more!  p 
 p © 2019 Southwicks Zoo. All rights reserved.  |    a href=" privacy-policy " Privacy Policy  a   p 
