 p class="toback"  img src="https:  www.tibettravel.org assets modxFile images arrow-left.png" alt="arrowleft" BACK  p 
 p class="headerinfop" Experts in Western China Tours!  p 
 p There are those who travel for adventure, there are those who travel to experience new culture, and there are also those who travel to see that one thing that fascinates them. The fluffy, pudgy, sometimes clumsy, all times adorable pandas are one such animal that make people travel lengths of the world. We all seem to love giant pandas, not just because they are adorable to look at, but also because they are the rare gem of the animal kingdom. That pure childlike innocence they emit is something that lifts our spirits. Admit it, watching funny and cute panda videos never fails to put a smile on our faces.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda funny-and-cute-panda.jpg" alt="Funny and cute pandas in Chengdu" title="Funny and cute pandas in Chengdu"  br Funny and cute pandas in Chengdu  p 
 p Although WWF announced that Pandas are no longer in the ‘endangered species’ list, they are still vulnerable. In past decade the panda population has increased by 17% thanks to the combined efforts of the governments, wildlife organisations, and many NGOs. Pandas are on a road to recovery but they still have to be delicately handled. Pandas are bred and brought up in very few places in this world, and China is one of them. In fact, China has some of the  strong world’s best panda  strong   strong reserves  strong  and also  a href="giant-panda-travel-guide panda-volunteer-program.html" panda volunteering programs  a . While a typical zoo around the world would have lions, tigers, giraffes, monkeys etc. it is not unusual in China to find a panda in the zoo. Here are the places where there are pandas in China.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda panda-volunteering.jpg" alt="The volunteer is feeding the giant panda" title="The volunteer is feeding the giant panda"  br The volunteer is feeding the giant panda  p 
 p In China,  strong habitations of Pandas  strong  are mostly concentrated in  a href="sichuan.html" Sichuan  a  and Shaanxi provinces. Along the mountain ranges of Qinling are the panda reserves in Shaanxi. Qinling mountains is the sweet spot for spotting pandas in the wild, in their natural habitation, but it is a lot tougher and seeing them in a zoo or nursery. While going for a  strong panda trekking  strong  a couple trackers tag along with you to help find best spots to come across a panda. The  strong best time to go for panda treks  strong  in during winter, as they come down the hill in search of food.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda qinling-panda.jpg" alt="The giant panda in Qinling Mountain" title="The giant panda in Qinling Mountain"  br The giant panda in Qinling Mountain  p 
 p Changqing, Foping National Nature Reserve, NiuBeiliang, Mt. Qinling, Luoguantai Wildlife Rescue Centre are some of the places where you can find Pandas in Shaanxi province.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda louguantai.jpg" alt="The giant pandas in Luoguantai Wildlife Rescue Centre in Shanxi province" title="The giant pandas in Luoguantai Wildlife Rescue Centre in Shanxi province"  br The giant pandas in Luoguantai Wildlife Rescue Centre in Shaanxi province  p 
 p It is a humungous sanctuary covering 9246 square kilometers and consists of 7 nature reserves including the famous Wolong Nature Reserve and also 9 scenic parks. Located cosily between the Chengdu plateau and Qinghai- Tibet plateau this sanctuary alone accounts for more than 30% of world’s giant panda population. These are parks and nature reserves are located across the Qionglai and Jiajin mountains. Housing more than 6,000 species of fauna, this botanically rich place is the perfect ambiance for the pandas. The sanctuary is not exclusive for pandas they also serve as a home for red pandas, snow leopards, and clouded leopards. This sanctuary is also an important place for the breeding of giant panda species.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda wolong-panda-reserve.jpg" alt="Sichuan Wolong Giant Panda Sanctuary" title="Sichuan Wolong Giant Panda Sanctuary"  br Sichuan Wolong Giant Panda Sanctuary  p 
 p  a href="giant-panda-travel-guide wolong-panda-reserve.html" Wolong Panda Reserve  a  and the mountains are where you can find a lot of giant pandas. Wolong reserve also offers panda volunteering programs and  a href="giant-panda.html" panda trekking  a  programs. In the volunteering program you will get to feed them carrot cakes, clean the nurseries, get a certificate, learn more about their way of living, their favourite foods, get some panda souvenirs, click pictures with the cuddly goodness, and have a whole lot of fun. The trekking program is much more informative, the tourists will get to see their natural habitat, learn about the tracking methods, panda food habits, and see breeding areas. Trekking is one of best ways to observe pandas in the wild in their own habitat. But, there is no guarantee of the sightings.  p 
 p True to its name, Chengdu has one of the largest Panda populations in the world. You will be able to see Pandas for most part of the year, but you will get to see a lot more during the months of August or September for you might get to see a lot of new born. Here is a fun fact, pandas often have twins. So, there is no dearth of cute younglings in the nursery. The city of Chengdu doesn’t hide its love for pandas. There are panda cafes, 20ft high panda statue, cabs donning panda toys, and waiters serving in panda costumes. It is hard not to get swept away in the madness of the locals’ and tourists’ love for pandas.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda new-born.jpg" alt="You might get to see a lot of new born during the months of August or September" title="You might get to see a lot of new born during the months of August or September"  br You might get to see a lot of new born during the months of August or September  p 
 p  a href="giant-panda-travel-guide chengdu-panda-breeding-and-research-center.html" Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding and Research Base  a  is one of the hot favourites of the tourists to look at pandas. This place was created just like the natural habitat to make the pandas feel right at home. A lot of bamboos and bushes have been planted over the years. There is also a giant panda exhibition to spread scientific awareness about the species. The  strong best time to visit  strong  is the breakfast time, which is when the pandas are most active.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda panda-breeding-and-research-base.jpg" alt="The giant pandas in Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding and Research Base" title="The giant pandas in Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding and Research Base"  br The giant pandas in Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding and Research Base  p 
 p Pandas can also be found in the  a href="giant-panda-travel-guide dujiangyan-panda-base.html" Dujiangyan Panda Base  a  which is around an hour and a half from Chengdu. The Dujiangyan panda base also offers  strong panda volunteer program  strong , the proceedings of which are used for the well-being of pandas. The healing zone, scientific zone, and educational zone are open to the public. Even if you do not join a volunteering program, tourists can take pictures with pandas for an extra amount.  p 
 p style="font-style: italic; text-align: center;"  img src="assets images travel-guide giant-panda dujiangyan-panda.jpg" alt="Pandas in Dujiangyan Panda Base" title="Pandas in Dujiangyan Panda Base"  br Pandas in Dujiangyan Panda Base  p 
 p There are a lot more panda bases in Sichuan but Wolong and Dujiangyan are the only places that are accessible to public.  p 
 p Panda bases, reserves, and mountains are not the only places you where you can find a panda. In China, you can find pandas even in the zoos. It is a lot easier and there is lot more than pandas in the zoo. But, admit it, it is entertaining to observe pandas and look at them even for hours together.  p 
 p Here is a list of  strong zoos and parks with giant pandas in China  strong :  p 
 p 1)  strong Beijing Zoo   strong - Beijing zoo is the first ever zoo in China and is one of the most popular zoos in China. It is one of the largest too. It is always crowded and the panda house in the zoo is packed all the time. br  2)  strong Dalian Forest Zoo   strong - This zoo opened its panda exhibits in the year 2012. Since this zoo a wide range of activities apart from zoo, this place is crowded for most time of the year. br  3)  strong Shanghai Zoo   strong - Shanghai Zoo is a huge zoo that is divided into 5 exhibition areas such as Primates, Herbivores, Carnivores, Birds, and Amphibians. And the pandas are in the Carnivores section of the zoo even though they don’t eat meat. The panda area is a giant fan shaped area with lots of vegetation for the pandas. There are also artificial mountains and ponds so the pandas can feel right at home. br  4)  strong Guilin Zoo   strong - It is located inside the Seven Stars Park; its panda hall is the most popular attraction. This is also the only place outside of Panda concentrated areas to have a panda research centre. br  5)  strong Macau Giant Panda Pavilion   strong - it is a huge fan shaped layout with both indoor and outdoor areas for the pandas. It is nestled near a hillside in the SeacPai Van Park making the terrain perfect for the pandas. br  6)  strong Ocean Park, Hong Kong   strong - It is a large theme park with not just rides but also 4 giant pandas as its main attraction. For those who can’t make it to Chengdu or any of the above mentioned places, Ocean Park is the easiest place where you can see pandas.  br  7)  strong Chimelong Safari Park, Guangzhou   strong - it is one of the largest animal theme parks in the world and is acclaimed for housing over 20,000 rare animals. Visiting this place you will get to see a lot many rare animals along with pandas.  p 
 p Now that you know where you can find pandas you don’t have to wait for anything. Pack your bags and cameras to be entertained by the cosy, charcoal-eyed fun bags.  p 
 p Get some travel ideas from our professional travel consultants FOR FREE.  All of our sample 
itineraries can be customized to fit your needs.   p 
 p We hand-picked four most valuable panda tours for you.  p 
 p class="rec_route" Chengdu - Wolong - Chengdu  p 
 p class="rec_route" Chengdu - Dujiangyan - Qingchengshan - Dujiangyan - Chengdu  p 
 p class="rec_route" Chengdu - Dujiangyan - Wolong Panda Base - Bifengxia Tour - Leshan - Chengdu  p 
 p style="font-size:12px;text-align: center;background: #434343;color: #fff;padding: .5em 0;margin-bottom: initial;" Complaint Tel of China's National Tourism Administration: 010-12301 br  Complaint Tel of Chengdu Municipal Tourism Administration: 028-96927  96527   p 
