 p This site uses cookies to enhance your experience. By using our website you consent to our use of cookies.     a href="  www.rzss.org.uk cookie-policy" target="_blank" Find out more  a     a href="#" title="OK" class="accept" I Agree  a   p 
 p Book tickets  span The fastest way to visit  span   p 
 p Day planner  span Make the most of your visit  span   p 
 p class="sub-text" 
Esther Conway from WildCats Conservation Alliance will explain the threats that Sumatran tigers face and how zoos are working together to protect the largest wild population in the Kerinci Seblat National Park, Sumatra.
  p 
 p class="title arrow-wht" An evening with Wildcats Conservation Alliance  p 
 p Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences?  p 
 p How to book  span All the information you need to help you start planning your educational trip.  span   p 
 p Sponsorship Opportunities  span No two sponsorship packages are the same so we work with our sponsors to create a partnership that best suits their business needs.  span   p 
 p Corporate Support  span Help us make a difference   span   p 
 p class="x_MsoNormal" We have started work on a new giant panda habitat at an alternative location at the zoo.  p 
 p class="x_MsoNormal" The new habitat will be on what is currently African Plains, with our nyala having moved to the old camel house, which has been modified for their needs.  p 
 p class="x_MsoNormal" This relates to plans to redevelop the former Corstorphine Hospital next to the zoo and will mean there is no disturbance to our pandas from noise or vibrations from the building work. Measures will also be put in place to protect our other animals close to the site.  p 
 p class="x_MsoNormal" It is too early to say when the new habitat will be ready or what this might mean for any breeding attempts next year.  p 
 p Follow EZ  p 
 p Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland.  p 
 p Registered charity number: SC004064  p 
