 p Red pandas are adorable tree climbing mammals native to China. They are surprisingly  em not  em  relatives of the black and white-colored giant panda. These adorable creatures are actually more closely related to  a href="  animals.net raccoon " raccoons  a ,  a href="  animals.net skunk " skunks  a , and  a href="  animals.net weasel " weasels  a . Read on to learn about the  em red panda  em .  p 
 p If you hadn’t guessed already, red pandas are orange-red in color. They have a black underbelly and legs, a white face, and white-rimmed ears. Red pandas have long, striped tails that help them maintain their balance. Their front legs are slightly shorter than their rear legs, which gives them a bit of a waddle when they walk.  p 
 p Red pandas are undeniably cute, but they are also incredibly interesting. These endangered mammals have garnered much more attention following a hilariously adorable viral video.  p 
 p Red pandas are found within a relatively restricted area. They prefer living in higher altitudes, and must have bamboo to forage for food. Their most frequently used habitats are mountains with deciduous and conifer trees, and bamboo understory.  p 
 p Red pandas are found in the Himalayan Mountains in China. They live from the Qinling Mountains in Shaanxi Province, to Tibet. Red pandas can be found as far north as the Burma Mountains, and as far south as Sikkim in India. The largest and most stable population is in the Sichuan Province.  p 
 p Approximately two-thirds of the red panda’s diet consists of bamboo. They also eat lichens, mushrooms, grasses, roots, berries, and occasionally small mammals or birds. Because they cannot digest cellulose, the main component in plants, red pandas have to eat copious amounts of bamboo. Because their diet is so low in calories, their days consist mainly of eating and sleeping.  p 
 p All around, red pandas have many human threats. Depending on the population location, different threats have varying levels of importance. One of the main threats to red pandas is deforestation and habitat loss due to urbanization.  p 
 p These animals are also illegally hunted, and poachers sell their pelts and bushy tails, frequently as hats. Domestic livestock also pose a problem, because they compete with red pandas for food.  p 
 p Red pandas have not been domesticated, but they are successfully bred in zoos.  p 
 p Because they are an endangered species, it is illegal to own a red panda as a pet.  p 
 p Red pandas do a lot of eating and sleeping, so providing plenty of food and napping spots are essential. They must have plenty of trees and branches for climbing, and fresh browse to eat. Zoos feed red pandas bamboo, and supplement their diet with commercially produced herbivore biscuits, grapes, apples, bananas, and other fruits.  p 
 p Most red pandas are solitary creatures, and only interact with other pandas during the breeding season. They can, however, live together peacefully, and most breeding pairs in zoos remain together year round. Most of their activity occurs at night, and during sunrise and sunset. During the day, they find a nice tree hollow or comfy branch to snooze on.  p 
 p Red pandas breed from January through March, and both genders will mate with multiple partners. The female red panda creates a nest in a hollow tree, and gives birth to one or two cubs within it. She will spend most of her time with the cubs during the first week, while they are most vulnerable.  p 
 p After this she will slowly begin to regain her free time, and remain outside the nest longer. The cubs will begin to explore outside the nest at about three months old. She will wean the cubs by the time they are eight months old, and they will stay with her until she has her next litter.  p 
 p class="comment-form-cookies-consent"  input id="wp-comment-cookies-consent" name="wp-comment-cookies-consent" type="checkbox" value="yes"  label for="wp-comment-cookies-consent" Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  label   p 
 p class="form-submit"  input name="submit" type="submit" id="submit" class="submit" value="Post Comment"   input type="hidden" name="comment_post_ID" value="2142" id="comment_post_ID" 
 input type="hidden" name="comment_parent" id="comment_parent" value="0" 
  p 
 p class="akismet_comment_form_privacy_notice" This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  a href="  akismet.com privacy " target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener" Learn how your comment data is processed  a .  p 
 p  a href="  www.facebook.com AnimalsDotNet " Animals Network  a   p 
 p  strong Scientific Classification  strong   p 
 p Mammalia  p 
 p  strong Scientific Name  strong   p 
 p  em Ailurus fulgens  em   p 
 p  strong Size  strong   p 
 p 31 – 48 in.  p 
 p  strong Weight  strong   p 
 p 6.6 – 14 lbs.  p 
 p  strong Special Physical Traits  strong   p 
 p Red fur, striped bushy tail, white rimmed ears  p 
 p  strong Life Span  strong   p 
 p 12 – 14 yrs.  p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong   p 
 p Mountain forests with bamboo undergrowth  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong   p 
 p Bamboo, roots, grasses, lichens, mushrooms, small animals  p 
 p  strong Social Lifestyle  strong   p 
 p Solitary  p 
 p  strong Favorite Food Source  strong   p 
 p Bamboo  p 
 p  strong Predators  strong   p 
 p Snow leopards, martens, and birds of prey  p 
 p  strong Location  strong   p 
 p China  p 
 p  strong Conservation Status  strong   p 
 p Endangered  p 
 p  script async src="  pagead2.googlesyndication.com pagead js adsbygoogle.js"   script  br 
 br 
 ins class="adsbygoogle" style="display:block" data-ad-client="ca-pub-3251641771602819" data-ad-slot="1792905505" data-ad-format="auto" data-full-width-responsive="true"   ins  br 
 script (adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});  script   p 
