 p class="lead" WWF is working around the Arctic to secure a future for polar bears.  p 
 p class="lead" Polar bears, the charismatic icon of the Arctic environment, have long been a focus in WWF’s on-the-ground research and conservation projects in the Arctic, going back to 1972 – and climate change is a primary focus of our global conservation efforts.  p 
 p WWF accepts that it is unreasonable to designate the whole Arctic as a place of no industrial activity. The Arctic is not like the Antarctic; it is occupied by more than four million people. While some of these people continue subsistence lifestyles, others want a place in the modern wage economy which often means jobs from exploitation of non-renewable resources.  p 
 p Keeping polar bears separate from people is better for both—as polar bears that wander into communities pose a risk to people, and people often respond by killing the bears. WWF has responded with a variety of locally-led initiatives to help  a href=" species polar-bear conflict " reduce conflict.  a   p 
 p WWF spent many years working with tourism operators in areas inhabited by polar bears to find ways to limit the impact of tourists on the bears and their habitat.  p 
 p Polar bear research tells us about their “vital signs” like body condition, reproduction, and cub survival. Trends in polar bear populations are even more important than hard numbers.  p 
 p According to an a href="http:  www.esajournals.org doi abs 10.1890 07-2089.1"  influential 2009 paper published by several of the world’s top polar bear scientists  a , ice loss over the next few decades is expected to be particularly acute across the European, Asian, and Alaskan ranges of polar bears. At the same time, sea ice is expected to be largely unchanged above Canada’s high Arctic islands, and north Greenland. The paper suggests that this area will be increasingly important for maintaining healthy polar bear populations.  p 
 p class="card-text" How polar bears meet, mate and raise cubs.  p 
 p class="card-text" How northern communities are keeping both polar bears and people safe.  p 
 p class="m-0 pb-2 h1 wwf" Building a future in which people live in harmony with nature.  p 
 p class="text-muted"  small  em © 2019 WWF - World Wide Fund For Nature © 1986 Panda Symbol WWF – World Wide Fund For Nature (formerly World Wildlife Fund)® “WWF” is a WWF Registered Trademark  em  br 
		 a class="text-muted" href="http:  biomecreative.com" site by biome creative  a   small   p 
