 p class="bec56 quartz none small" The important stories of innovation across the continent’s wide-ranging economies  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India and its far-flung diaspora  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as the Quartz newsroom  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The ground on which pandas are a href="https:  www.youtube.com watch?v=s3k50IfMbS8"  tumbling about  a  in China does far more for the environment than the bears themselves. A study published today (June 28), led by researchers at the Chinese Academy of Science, shows that conserving the giant panda’s natural habitat was worth roughly $2.6 billion in 2010—at least 10 times we paid to preserve the species that year.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The study, published in Current Biology, hinges on the argument that the ecosystems pandas enjoy the most—specifically, mountainous forests chock full of bamboo—are valuable for other reasons. This land, the researchers argue, can also be used by locals for crops, grazing farm animals, and as a way to access natural water sources and firewood. Plus, natural forests sequester carbon dioxide from the air, absorb rainwater in the soil, and facilitate the cycling of nutrients from plants to all the other animals that inhabit forests and back again.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The study also argues that pandas provide cultural value as an “iconic species,” generating happiness (which you’d think would be priceless) worldwide—just look at their popularity at zoos and their representation as toys and on other goods. The authors note that “our analysis does not assume that pandas themselves drive tourism;” that said, they go on, people do enjoy visiting panda reserves in the hopes of seeing a bear, and highly value them culturally.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The study calculates that, all the “services” carried out by the 67 panda reserves spanning over 12,740 sq miles (33,000 sq km) in central China were worth an estimated $2.6 billion in 2010. Meanwhile, it cost only $255 million to protect that land. This obvious benefit to preserving panda habitat is surely enough to convince those “journalists [who] have suggested that it would be best to let the panda go extinct,” the authors write.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" Although that comment  em probably   em wasn’t intended for us, it’s true that last week, my editor Elijah Wolfson and I at Quartz came out as a href="https:  qz.com 1308730 modern-pandas-should-have-died-out-years-ago "  anti-panda  a . We’re not the only ones to have voiced that opinion. Journalists at a href="https:  www.npr.org templates story story.php?storyId=125773728"  NPR  a , a href="https:  gizmodo.com 5841175 should-we-just-let-pandas-die-off-already"  Gizmodo  a , a href="http:  www.businessinsider.com panda-most-overrated-animal-ever-2018-5"  Business Insider  a , and a href="http:  www.slate.com articles news_and_politics obit 1999 12 hsinghsing.html"  Slate  a  have shared similar views. To be clear, we’re mostly saying these creatures are overrated and don’t seem to  em want   em to survive as a species: For bears with mostly carnivorous stomachs, they’re sure committed to sticking to that highly inefficient bamboo diet, and they don’t seem all that well-equipped to reproduce.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" But make no mistake: we’re not at odds with this paper. The ecosystems around the globe combine to provide an estimated a href="https:  www.nature.com articles 387253a0"  $125 trillion  a  worth of economic value, a contribution that often goes unrecognized. Conservation efforts are great, especially considering we’re the ones who demolished a lot of natural panda habitat directly through urban development, and indirectly through climate change, to begin with. The forests that house pandas are undeniably great habitat for a href="https:  www.livescience.com 52190-photos-china-wildlife-pandas.html"  all kinds of creatures  a , golden snub-nosed monkeys, takins, golden pheasants, and blue sheep—some of which are also endangered or vulnerable.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" So protect forest reservations in China! Add more, even! Just don’t do it for only those black and white floofers.  p 
