 p  strong 800-933-7181  strong  (Free in USA &amp; CA)  span class="t-arrow tag"   span   p 
 p  strong 86-773-286-5632  strong  (Intl rates apply)  p 
 p class=" contributor" Last updated by elysees at 2015 9 14  span id="getLevel"   span    p 
 p  The giant panda lives today on the eastern rim of the mountainous  a href="  www.chinatravel.com qinghai "  em Qinghai  em   a - a href="  www.chinatravel.com tibet "  em Tibet  em   a  Plateau in Southwestern China, specifically in the areas of the  strong Minshan and Qinling Mountains   strong (the provinces of Gansu-Sichuan and Shaanxi, respectively). There, giant pandas enjoy the cool, moist climate they prefer, since perennially dense (thick as clouds) mists are interrupted only by the occasional torrential rain in summer, while winters are snowy, with the occasional hailstorm.  p 
 p  Unfortunately, neither of these two mountainous areas forms a single, contiguous panda habitat. Instead it is broken up into small patches, with human-related patches in between them. A phenomenon referred to by panda experts as "habitat fragmentation".  p 
 p   img alt="Current Panda Habitat" src="  images.chinatravel.com allpicture 2015 08 69d7ee9585fe4b94aad032d9_cp_599x453.jpg"   p 
 p  Although the giant panda habitats in the Minshan Mountains area (Sichuan and Gansu Provinces) are larger, viewed collectively, fewer giant pandas live in these habitats – only about 45% of the total population of giant pandas living in the wild, in fact, live in the Minshan Mountains area. There are 27 giant panda reserves in the mountains area to protect them.  p 
 p  The remainder live in the much smaller geographical area of the Qinling Mountains of Shaanxi Province. The mountains channel rainwater into Yangtze River and Yellow River which are China’s mother rivers. The warm rains support a variety of animals and plants. This area is home to few hundred pandas and some other endangered species, like golden monkey.  p 
 p  Also read  a href="  www.chinatravel.com focus giant-pandas " Giant Pandas  a , you will have learned everything you have ever wanted to know about pandas, like  a href=" focus giant-pandas baby-panda.htm" baby panda  a ,  a href=" focus giant-pandas places-to-see-and-hug.htm" places to see and even hug  a  them, what they do every day, what they eat, and  a href=" focus giant-pandas how-to-plan-a-panda-tour.htm" how to plan a tour to visit panda  a .  p 
 p class="shadow-title"  strong Half-Day Dujiangyan Panda  Base Tour  strong 
              p 
 p class="font18"  strong What You Can Expect  strong   p 
 p align="left" Take a half day out to see the cute pandas in the  strong Dujiangyan  Panda Base  strong . If you would like to hold a panda for photos, we would be happy  to arrange that for you.  p 
 p  Your knowledgeable, English-speaking tour guide and experienced  driver will pick you up from your hotel lobby at about 8 a.m. in Chengdu.  You will arrive at Dujiangyan Panda Valley after a 90-minute drive. You will  then  strong see the adorable giant pandas  strong  and tour around the base.  strong Holding  a panda  strong  for a photo is available by donating about 1,800 yuan for  strong one  minute  strong .  p 
 p  You will return to Chengdu, leaving at about 11:30 a.m., and  arrive back at your hotel at about 1 p.m.                p 
 p  strong Available  strong : Every day but book it 1 week in advance.  p 
 p class="font18"  strong Price Inclusion   strong   p 
 p class="font18"  strong Good to Know  strong   p 
 p align="left" Want to get closer to the cute pandas and do something for them?  p 
 p  A  strong Panda Volunteer Program  strong  is available. This program includes  Dujiangyan and takes a whole day. Activities include cleaning the enclosure,  washing bamboo, feeding the pandas, watching a panda movie, listening to a  panda lecture and making panda cakes.  p 
 p  Click  a href=" china-day-trips cdalc-34.htm" class="blue"  strong 1-Day  Dujiangyan Panda Keeper Program  strong   a  to see more details or book a place  on the program.  p 
 p align="left" In the afternoon of the your tour day, the  strong Dujiangyan Irrigation  Project  strong , an attraction enjoying a history of over 2,000 years, is  recommended for you to learn something more about Chinese culture. The project  is just about 30 minutes’ drive from the Dujiangyan Panda Valley.  p 
 p  See more details or book a place on strong  the  a href=" china-day-trips cdalc-35.htm" class="blue" One-Day  Dujiangyan Panda Valley and Dujiangyan Irrigation Project Tour  a .  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p  The  a href="  www.chinatravel.com focus giant-pandas " giant panda  a  feeds on bamboo, and bamboo requires a cool, moist climate.  Therefore the panda, by extension, requires a cool, moist climate. Given the panda's stocky build with its thick fur, both of which are the result of having adapted to a diet of bamboo, the panda is dressed for a cool, moist climate but cannot thrive in a hot, dry climate.  p 
 p  The original, meat-eating panda probably resembled a more normal type of bear.  Just as the original giraffe, before it adapted to dining off trees, probably resembled a more normal, even-toed ungulate, or hoofed animal. The even-toed category includes the deer, the antelope, the camel and most of the domesticated farm animals but not the horse which is odd-toed.  p 
 p  Bamboo grows best as undergrowth in mixed, broadleaf and coniferous forests at an elevation of 1525 metres (1, 666 yards) to 3050 metres (3, 335 yards), though the giant panda has been known to live on mountain slopes as high as 3960 metres (4, 330 yards).  p 
 p   a href=" china-tours ct-cd-1.htm" style="text-align: center;"  img alt="1-Day Panda Tour &amp; Chengdu Highlights" src="  data.chinatravel.com images userupload peggie 201406200706271.jpg"   a   p 
 p  The panda sits when eating, with its outstretched hind legs in front of it, spending from 12-16 hours daily in eating and foraging for food, consuming, in the process 12-15% of their body weight! If new bamboo shoots are available, the panda will typically concentrate on this food source, stuffing itself on up to 38 kilograms (84 lbs) of it in a single sitting! Otherwise the panda consumes about 13-15 kilograms (30-34 lbs) of a mixed "plate" of regular bamboo shoots and leaves.  p 
 p  The panda eats different parts of the bamboo plant depending on the season. Summer through autumn is the monsoonal period when the leaves are available and the panda will concentrate on these while in winter, when the leaves are gone all that is left are the stems.  p 
 p  At that time of year it is a tough life for a panda in the wild. In the spring, before the bamboo leaves spring forth, there is plenty of the panda’s favorite food available, e.g. fresh new bamboo shoots which the panda will gorge itself on.  p 
 p  As indicated above, the giant panda spends upwards of 2 3 of its day eating and foraging for food. The rest of the time, it either lazes around or slumbers in for periods of 3-4 hours at a time.  p 
 p   img alt="Pandas" src="  data.chinatravel.com images userupload david 201334220934211.jpg" style="text-align: center;"   p 
 p  The pandas that could tolerate bamboo better apparently won out, in a survival-of-the-fittest, with pandas relying more and more exclusively on bamboo, since the panda apparently had few if any competitors at the bamboo buffet.  p 
 p  As already indicated in the Bare Facts section, bamboo is a low-calorie food source  that has had a defining influence on both the physical appearance of the panda as well as on its behaviour. The bamboo diet has obviously determined the panda's habitat and it must live within easy access to bamboo forests.  p 
 p  It has limited the panda's habitat to terrain that is not too steeply sloped even though the bamboo plant can easily survive on steep slopes because steeply sloped terrain would require greater exertion than the panda is capable of, at least on a sustained basis.  p 
 p  In earlier times, there could be up to 25 different bamboo species that were available to the panda in any given original habitat, but many of which have disappeared as humans have encroached on the bamboo's and panda's habitat and perhaps poaching of the panda itself, either for food or for sale as an exotic animal).  p 
 p  Today, only a handful of bamboo species remain. There are even fewer of them in the altitude range that suits the panda and this has also contributed to the threatened status of the panda.  p 
 p  The panda obtains most of its protein from the bamboo plant's leaves, but it needs the stems partly for the water they contain. The stem also contains protein, only in lesser amounts even if the high fibre content of the stems means that the panda must relieve itself up to 40 times a day.  p 
 p   img alt="Giant Panda in Zoos and Breeding Centers  in China" src="  images.chinatravel.com allpicture 2015 08 1cc08ce09e6e4e9985e95350_cp_599x488.jpg"   p 
 p  The giant panda once occupied almost all of southwestern to southeastern China (even the lowlands of these areas. This seems counterintuitive, given the panda's "dress", as well as parts of neighboring  a href="  www.chinatravel.com myanmar-travel " Burma  a  (Myanmar) and  a href="  www.chinatravel.com vietnam-travel " Vietnam  a . Two decades ago, the number of special reserves was a mere 13, and note that the subsequent increase in special reserves is not due to habitat fragmentation, in fact, just the opposite occurred.  p 
 p   img alt="The Giant Panda Breeding Research Base" src="  data.chinatravel.com album userupload david 201346220946561.jpg" style="text-align: center;"   p 
 p align="center"     p 
 p     p 
 p  Outside of China, the giant panda can be seen in the following zoos (some of which have successful breeding facilities):  p 
 p   strong Japan  strong   p 
 p  The Oji Zoo, city of Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan.  p 
 p   strong Singapore  strong   p 
 p   strong Autralia  strong   p 
 p   strong North America  strong   p 
 p   strong Europe  strong   p 
 p  On the positive side, thanks to human intervention, pandas are multiplying in captivity and are being released into the wild (the giant panda population of the  a href="  www.chinatravel.com shaanxi " Shaanxi Province  a   Qinling Mountains area has increased by more than 10% in the past 20 years, according to WWF figures). More and more patches of human-related habitat are being reclaimed the panda.  p 
 p  The most recent initiative in this regard being the creation of corridors, also known as Green Corridors, which connect the otherwise isolated patches of panda habitat. The total giant panda habitat of the Shaanxi Province  Qinling Mountains area, including the Green Corridors, has increased by 80%, according to WWF figures.  p 
 p   br 
            In a not-too-distant future, the panda may be removed from the endangered species list, even though it will remain on the threatened species list for years and years to come, especially if climate change poses unforeseen, adverse effects on the panda's habitat.  p 
 p  Panda males have difficulty fertilizing the otherwise available panda females. Coupled with the fact that the female does not conceive easily, and the fact that in the wild, only about half of infant pandas survive, it adds up to a severe threat to the panda's existence.  p 
 p  Besides the threats posed to the giant panda by humans, a few others can be added  as natural enemies. This includes roaming packs of feral dogs (i.e., domesticated dogs living in the wild) and the snow leopard (Panthera uncia) which itself is an endangered species.  p 
 p  Whereas one might wish that more pandas could be produced in order to provide survival food for the very beautiful snow leopard – and the yellow throated marten (Martes flavigula), another threatened species itself belonging to the weasel family, all of which prey on infant pandas.  p 
 p  The infant panda is especially vulnerable when its mother is away feeding, which she does several times daily, for 2-3 hours at a time. However for the first several days, the mother panda will forego both food and drink in order to be available to the infant panda. Its needs are to suckle almost all day long, for up to a half hour at a time, and with less than an hour between the end of one feeding session and the beginning of the next!  p 
 p  However, the greatest threat to the panda is strong  the human threat  strong !  p 
 p   a href=" china-tours ct-pd-01s.htm" style="text-align: center;"  img alt="Cute Pandas in China" src="  data.chinatravel.com images userupload peggie 201441210141541.jpg"   a   p 
 p     p 
 p  Despite being a carnivore by nature, the giant panda gradually switched over to eating the bamboo plant ages ago, a plant that it shares with the red panda and a number of lemur types (certain rodents eat bamboo roots, and where elephants might encounter the bamboo, they would probably eat it, but the elephant generally lives in warmer climates).  p 
 p  Humans eat bamboo shoots, but it is not certain that our forefathers ate enough of them to threaten the panda's prime place at the bamboo buffet.  p 
 p  The plant fibre is rich in cellulose, which requires specific microbes to break it down. It is obvious there were some early pandas who were able to do this when the panda probably added bamboo to its diet only as a supplement.  p 
 p class="feedbackP" Most Recommended Topics  p 
 p  strong  a href=" facts chinese-food.htm" Chinese Food  a   strong   p 
 p  Overview
              
              Chinese food owning a long history… a rel="nofollow" href=" facts chinese-food.htm" &gt;&gt; details  a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" facts chinese-kung-fu.htm" Chinese Kung Fu  a   strong   p 
 p  Kung Fu (an Anglicization of &gt;gongfu&gt; [功夫]), me… a rel="nofollow" href=" facts chinese-kung-fu.htm" &gt;&gt; details  a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" facts chinese-taiji-quan.htm" Chinese Taiji Quan  a   strong   p 
 p  Millions of people practice Taiji Quan every … a rel="nofollow" href=" facts chinese-taiji-quan.htm" &gt;&gt; details  a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" facts shaolin-kung-fu.htm" Shaolin Kung Fu  a   strong   p 
 p  China is a country of much greatness. It is a l… a rel="nofollow" href=" facts shaolin-kung-fu.htm" &gt;&gt; details  a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" facts china-national-day.htm" China National Day  a   strong   p 
 p  October 1st is t&gt;he &gt;Chinese National Day. … a rel="nofollow" href=" facts china-national-day.htm" &gt;&gt; details  a   p 
 p class="feedbackP" Recommended Tours  p 
 p  strong  a href=" china-tours ct-cd-7s.htm" 4-Days Panda Keeper Program and Chengdu Highlights Tour  a   strong   p 
 p Visit Chengdu  p 
 p from USD  span class="priceStyle" $ 549  span   p 
 p  strong  a href=" china-tours ct-cd-10as.htm" 5-Days Chengdu and Bifengxia Panda Breeding Center Volunteer Experience  a   strong   p 
 p Visit Chengdu  p 
 p from USD  span class="priceStyle" $ 939  span   p 
 p  strong  a href=" china-tours ct-cd-1s.htm" 5-Days Chengdu Panda Tour   a   strong   p 
 p Visit Chengdu, Leshan, Emeishan  p 
 p from USD  span class="priceStyle" $ 639  span   p 
 p class="feedbackP"  Interesting to Know  p 
 p 
         a rel="nofollow" href="mailto:%20service@chinatravel.com" Contact Us  a 
         a rel="nofollow" href=" about-china-travel " About Us  a 
          a rel="nofollow" href=" blog " Blog  a 
         a rel="nofollow" href=" about-china-travel china-travel-terms-conditions.html"  Terms and Conditions  a 
         a rel="nofollow" href=" china-travel-faq " FAQs  a 
         a rel="nofollow" href=" feedback " Testimonials  a 
         a rel="nofollow" href=" china-travel-tools china-trains " China Train Booking  a 
        p 
 p class="margin0" call us at: strong  800-9337181  strong  (Free in US &amp; CA)   p 
 p © All Rights Reserved,Chinatravel.com® is a registered trademark   p 
