 p We sent you SMS, for complete subscription please reply.  p 
 p Wonder of the Day  strong #1233  strong   p 
 p class="rs_skip" 
					  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?category=science" SCIENCE  a  					  —  a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonders?sub_category=life-science" Life Science  a  				  p 
 p    p 
 p class="intro" If you could choose any wild animal or  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder where-is-the-largest-zoo " target="_blank" zoo resident   a to keep at home as a pet, what would you choose? If you're like many kids, you'd soon have a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  to cuddle up with at night. But would a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  make a good pet?  p 
 p Sure, they're cute. Who can resist those pudgy bodies and adorable faces? They  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-cuddly-are-koalas " target="_blank" look so cuddly  a  that you just want to pinch their cheeks and give them a hug. They would be a real chore to take care of, though.  p 
 p First of all, they eat A LOT. An adult  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  eats about 12 hours each day. Over the course of that time, it consumes about 20-40 pounds of  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-bamboo" title="the hard woody stems of bamboo plants; used in construction and crafts and fishing poles" bamboo  span   a . That also means that pandas have to use the bathroom dozens of times a day. That's a lot of clean-up!  p 
 p So it's probably best to leave the pandas in the wild and in the zoos. Unfortunately, there aren't many pandas left in either place these days.   p 
 p If you want to see a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  in the wild, you'll have to visit the cool, wet  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-bamboo" title="the hard woody stems of bamboo plants; used in construction and crafts and fishing poles" bamboo  span   a  forests of the  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-remote" title="situated far from the main centers of population; distant" remote  span   a ,  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-mountainous" title="having hills and crags" mountainous  span   a  regions of central China. You'll also have to be super sneaky, as pandas have an advanced sense of smell that helps them keep their distance from predators — and other pandas.  p 
 p  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" Giant  span   a  pandas tend to live a mostly solitary existence. They do search for mates in the spring, and females will give birth to a  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-cub" title="the young of a fox, bear, lion, or other carnivorous mammal" cub  span   a  or two in the fall. Unfortunately, the  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a 's birth rate is quite low. Pandas in the wild have only recently been able to begin to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-replenish" title="to make complete or full again; refill" replenish  span   a  their numbers thanks to ongoing  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-conservation" title="the preservation of a resource, esp. a natural resource such as soil, water, or forests, from loss, pollution, or waste" conservation  span   a  efforts worldwide.  p 
 p Estimates of wild  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  populations vary wildly. Some experts believe there are as few as 1,000  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a  pandas left in the wild. Other scientists believe there are about 1,600 pandas left. A recent study using DNA analysis, however, concludes that there could be as many as 3,000 pandas still in the wild.   p 
 p In addition to wild pandas, there are about 250 pandas in zoos, mostly within China. These beautiful,  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-peaceful" title="not disturbed by strife or turmoil or war" peaceful  span   a  creatures are adored by millions of people around the world. In their homeland of China, they're considered a national treasure. They have few  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder are-horses-predators-or-prey " target="_blank" natural predators  a . So why are they so  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-rare" title="not found in large numbers and consequently of interest or value" rare  span   a ? Who is their worst enemy?  p 
 p Sadly, it's us. Human beings are the reason so few pandas roam the forests of China today. In the past, pandas were hunted for their valuable furs.  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-poaching" title="to hunt, fish, or trap illegally or on another's land" Poaching  span   a  has declined in recent years, due to new laws and greater public awareness of  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-conservation" title="the preservation of a resource, esp. a natural resource such as soil, water, or forests, from loss, pollution, or waste" conservation  span   a  efforts.  p 
 p The biggest problem, however, resulted from  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-habitat" title="the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs" habitat  span   a  loss that began in earnest around 1950 when China experienced a population boom. Increased development led to  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-deforestation" title="the state of being clear of trees" deforestation  span   a  and farming, all of which drove many pandas out of the  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-lowland" title="low level country" lowland  span   a  areas where they once used to live.  p 
 p As roads and railroads were built through these areas,  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-do-we-need-trees " target="_blank" the forests  a  the pandas called home became increasingly  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-fragmented" title="having been divided; having the unity destroyed" fragmented  span   a . For solitary animals that struggled to mate successfully, mating became even more difficult. Perhaps more critically, destruction of their native forests destroyed much of the  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-bamboo" title="the hard woody stems of bamboo plants; used in construction and crafts and fishing poles" bamboo  span   a  pandas relied upon to survive.  p 
 p Fortunately, some scientists believe that  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  populations are once again on the rise. The Chinese government has opened over 50  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  reserves, which is over four times as many as existed just a couple decades ago. Once listed as an  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-does-a-species-become-endangered " target="_blank" endangered species,  a  the  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a   a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-panda" title="large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae" panda  span   a  has recently been upgraded to "vulnerable" status, an indication that  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-conservation" title="the preservation of a resource, esp. a natural resource such as soil, water, or forests, from loss, pollution, or waste" conservation  span   a  efforts are working. With continued  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-conservation" title="the preservation of a resource, esp. a natural resource such as soil, water, or forests, from loss, pollution, or waste" conservation  span   a  efforts, there is good reason to hope that  a href="#" class="word"  span data-tooltip aria-haspopup="true" class="has-tip fnc-w-giant" title="any creature of exceptional size" giant  span   a  pandas will once again rise to the levels that existed in the past.  p 
 p Join us in Wonderopolis tomorrow as we make something simple really complicated!  p 
 p We hope you haven't had your fill of fluffy cuteness just yet. Explore one or more of the following activities with a friend or family member for even more panda-rific fun!
  p 
 p Could you please include who wrote the article,  and when they wrote it please? I am trying to use the information for a project and I need to cite it.
Thanks!  p 
 p Hi, Maddie!  p 
 p We ask that all WONDERs are cited with Wonderopolis as the author and the date users accessed the WONDER is used. Thanks for checking!  p 
 p pandas should not be endangered they should have freedom like us
  p 
 p YESSSSSSSSSS  p 
 p I'm sure we all wish that were the case, Jack!   p 
 p I learned that pandas eat a lot so I wouldn't want them as a pet. They are also endangered.  p 
 p pandas are my fav animals
  p 
 p We agree - even though pandas are adorable, they aren't pets.  And unfortunately, they are endangered due to a variety of reasons, including habitat loss :(.  p 
 p Pandas should not be endangered.  p 
 p We agree. Unfortunately, though, due primarily to habitat loss, pandas are an endangered species.  p 
 p pandas are my favorite animals and donkies  p 
 p Thanks for sharing! We hope that you have learned more about pandas from this Wonder!  p 
 p I think it is interesting that Bad people hurt pandas.  p 
 p It is very unfortunate that in the past, pandas were hunted for their valuable furs.  Thank you for sharing your thoughts, Nicholas.  p 
 p I LOVE Pandas and BAMBOO! My favorite  animal is a dog and panda.  p 
 p me too!  p 
 p Thanks for sharing, SJH!  What did you learn about pandas from this Wonder?  p 
 p Thank you so much for putting this up on wonderopolis.We learnd so much that pandas eat 20 to 40 pounds a day and what they eat is only in china.Again thank you so much. they are so cute we want to be a panda so much :p  p 
 p We're so glad that you learned more about pandas from this Wonder! 😀  p 
 p I think it is interesting that there are 2000 pandas in the  world but scientist say that there is 1,600 left.
That makes me think about the fact that pandas are rare.                                                                                                                                                                                                                
I also wonder how pandas sleep.
I think it is interesting that there are 2000 pandas in the  world but scientist say that there is 1,600 left.
That makes me think about the fact that pandas are rare.                                                                                                                                                                                 p 
 p Hi, Aiden! We hope you do some more research to find out how pandas sleep! Let us know what you find!  It is unfortunate that Pandas are so rare. 😥  p 
 p Why are pandas s endangered and abused by humans? What have the pandas ever done to humans? It doesn't make sense that humans would kill a panda that's done nothing to them.  p 
 p Thanks for your conern, Liam. Unfortunately, habitat loss due to deforestation is one of the main reasons why pandas are endangered.    p 
 p I love pandas!  p 
 p Pandas are amazing animals! Thanks for sharing!  p 
 p Love the article! Pandas are adorable and deserve lives.  p 
 p We're so glad that you like this Wonder, Liam!  p 
 p Oh I have a panda mask so cool, :   p 
 p Hi, Nate! Are you referring to the  a href="https:  www.activityvillage.co.uk panda-mask" target="_blank" panda mask  a  we mention under the "Try It Out" section? We hope you had fun making the mask!  p 
 p I love pandas so much. When they said that that people killed pandas I was so angry. I mean why out of all animals do you have to kill pandas. I am sitting here with my panda squishy and we are both very angry.😡😡🐼🐼My milk squishy is angry and so is my friends panda squishy. Let's just put it this way and say everything is angry. I am obsessed with pandas 🐼.Peace out but I am still mad.  p 
 p I agree with you Annie! What human begins would kill such a cute little animal?! I am OBSESSED with pandas!!! They are so adorable!!!  p 
 p Thanks for sharing, Annie! It is very sad that pandas are endangered due to human activity and habitat loss.  Fortunately, though, some scientists believe that panda populations are on the rise again!  p 
 p who is this story by?
  p 
 p Thanks for asking, mia! We ask that Wonderopolis be listed as the author.  Also, if you are citing this Wonder for research, since we do not list a publish date for our Wonders of the Day, you may use the date you accessed this page for information.  The following is how your would cite this page:  p 
 p "Why Are Pandas Rare?"  em Wonderopolis  em .   a href="https:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-are-pandas-rare#comments" target="_blank" https:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-are-pandas-rare  a .  Accessed 12 Jan. 2018.  p 
 p great details
  p 
 p Thanks, livi!!   p 
 p Cute and awesome   p 
 p Pandas ARE cute and awesome!! Thanks for sharing your thoughts, Tony!   p 
 p i am in love with pandas  p 
 p We do, too! Have you ever seen a panda at the zoo, panda lover??    p 
 p Actually Pandas could be very agressive even though the look very very cuddley and cute! Also i would prefer to have a pet wolf because of how unique they are! i would love to have a Maned Wolf! they look like a fox yet its actually a species of small wolf!  p 
 p I would rather have a wolf too  p 
 p Good point about the pandas, Jay.  They are still  em bears  em , after all.  Thanks for sharing!  p 
 p hi jackson
  p 
 p HI elizebeth  p 
 p i love pandas and i am doing a report on them and i want to try to help them as much as i can  p 
 p That's fantastic, Unitato!  You are inspiring us today!  Thanks for checking out this Wonder and for caring about pandas!  p 
 p How many panda cubs are born in one litter at a time?
  p 
 p Great question, Peyton!  Do a little digging and see if you can find the answer to that one.  Let us know what you come up with!  p 
 p I &lt;3 Pandas there so cute  p 
 p They are pretty adorable.  Do you ever Wonder what makes some animals just universally cuter than others?   p 
 p pandas are awsome  p 
 p Hey, Jonathon! You might be happy to learn that pandas were recently downgraded to "vulnerable" status instead of endangered! Read about it at  a href="http:  news.nationalgeographic.com 2016 09 pandas-vulnerable-endangered-species " National Geographic!  a   p 
 p This helped me with my essay!!  p 
 p That's SUPER news, Tymia! Way to go on your assignment!  p 
 p Whu pqndas are rare  p 
 p Hello there, rihan! We hope you'll explore the text above to learn why pandas are rare! :)  p 
 p Pandas are adorable. My little sister loves them! I read the whole article and took the test. I got all of them correct! I wish that there were more pandas out there! There are only 3,000!! Maybe one day we will have more pandas, and they won't go extinct like the dinosaurs did. It would be sad to have pandas go extinct, and a long time from now, we would be finding lots of panda fossils! Pandas are amazing creatures, and I hope everyone tries to help pandas, and spread the word about pandas! Thanks for posting this wonder, Wonderopolis!  p 
 p I love pandas  p 
 p how do we save pandas
  p 
 p Thanks for WONDERing with us, julieta! Many zoos and conversation organizations are working to boost populations of pandas and also protect their habitat and food sources from being destroyed. You can help by spreading the news about pandas to others. :)  p 
 p We do, too, Wonder Friend! It's GREAT you're looking out for them! :)  p 
 p Hi, Wonder Friend! Thanks for looking out for the pandas! We're glad you're advocating for them! :)  p 
 p How can we help pandas to let their population rise?  p 
 p we can help these poor pandas by recycling  and don't hunt them post a picture or two about saving the panda do all you can to spread the WORD         PANDAS ARE IN NEED OF HELP   p 
 p Thanks for sharing the GREAT suggestions, Gianni! It's WONDERful you're advocating for pandas and the environment! :)  p 
 p Great question, Kevin! We hope this Wonder was informative! Find more ideas by continuing to research! Have fun! Thanks for looking out for the pandas! :)  p 
 p I love this article pandas are so cute,do you think they are.  p 
 p We agree, Benjamin! Pandas are GREAT animals! We're glad you liked this Wonder! :)  p 
 p pandas are sooooooooo cute and cuddly I want to help the pandas


I LOVE PANDAS !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 %  p 
 p Hi, Riley! We agree, panda are super cute! Keep up your enthusiastic attitude for helping pandas! :)  p 
 p I love pandas  p 
 p We do, too, ollie! They are GREAT animals. Thanks for WONDERing with us! :)  p 
 p it is awesome  p 
 p We're THRILLED you liked this Wonder, ollie! We appreciate you taking time to leave a comment! :)  p 
 p I love pandas. I think they are the most fascinating animals out there.  p 
 p I love Pandas too  p 
 p That's GREAT, Caryann! They are WONDERful animals! :)  p 
 p They are very cool animals, Hannah! We agree! We're glad you liked this Wonder! :)  p 
 p people are killing plant to make the bamboo and that's why panda's are diying
  p 
 p Thanks for sharing what you learned, jayden! We hope as people learn more about it, panda numbers keep rising. We appreciate you WONDERing with us! :)  p 
 p Because most are dead   p 
 p Thanks for your comment, Lilah! Unfortunately, pandas are endangered. We hope you continue to spread awareness about them! :)  p 
 p pandas are being killed because people are takeing the banbo
  p 
 p Thanks for sharing your thoughts, michael! We appreciate you joining the discussion! :)  p 
 p I love panda bears  p 
 p We do, too, Maddie! They are fun to learn about. We hope you enjoyed this Wonder all about pandas! :)  p 
 p I wonder why we can't keep panda as a pet.  p 
 p I agree⚽️  p 
 p Hi, Maddie! Thanks for joining the conversation! We encourgae you to also check out  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-cant-every-animal-be-a-pet" _blank Wonder #1444: Why Can't Every Animal Be a Pet?  a . We hope it's helpful! :)  p 
 p Hi, Areesha! Pandas are sweet animals. However, they grow very big and need certain habitats. Check out  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-cant-every-animal-be-a-pet" _blank Wonder #1444: Why Can't Every Animal  Be a Pet?  a . Have fun WONDERing! :)
  p 
 p This is an amazing program  p 
 p Welcome, Mr. T! Thanks for the KIND words! We're THRILLED you're WONDERing with us and spreading the JOY of WONDER! :)  p 
 p pandas so awesome(:  p 
 p I agree, 🐼   p 
 p We agree, merissa! They are WONDERful animals. We encourage you to keep learning about them at your library. Have fun WONDERing! :)  p 
 p a cute  p 
 p Hi, joey! Pandas are cute! We hope you enjoyed this Wonder! We encourage you to keep researching pandas at your library and online. They are amazing animals! :)  p 
 p I think they should stop this!!!!  p 
 p Hi, taylor! We are glad there are new regulations in place and many efforts being taken to help the panda population. Hopefully, one day, pandas will be on the rise again! Thanks for your comment and caring about animals! :)  p 
 p I think they should stop. - Mya  p 
 p Welcome back, Mya! Fortunately, due to new new laws and greater public awareness of conservation efforts, panda populations are beginning to rise again! :)  p 
 p Panda's are rare because there is only like 20,00 more of the panda bears in the world.  p 
 p Welcome back, Abbey H! According to the  a href="http:  www.worldwildlife.org species giant-panda#overview" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" World Wildlife Fund  a , pandas are endangered.  The last panda census was done in 2004 and there were 1,600 pandas living in the wild.  You can find more information on their website.  Here is another WONDER related to the topic we think you may enjoy exploring.  a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-does-a-species-become-endangered " title="How Does a Species Become Endangered?" target="_blank" rel="nofollow"  Wonder #152: How Does a Species Become Endangered?  a  Have fun WONDERing! :)  p 
 p I wonder how many cubs that are born a year out of all the pandas in the world.   I love pandas and there cubs. come and look at all of our schools blogs go to www.orekaclass.blogspot.co.nz   

4.10 2014 I am 9.  p 
 p This is a really interesting wonder. I
Now I am wondering what the panda's natural environment looks like??  p 
 p Hey, Wonder Friend Wendy!  Thanks for sharing your opinion about today's Wonder of the day with us!  We LOVE it when our Wonder Friends do more WONDERing after reading our Wonders! That would be a GREAT question to explore on your own! :)  p 
 p Because people builds raildroads that makes it harder to reproduce, and people hunt them down for their valuable fur.  p 
 p Thanks for summarizing an answer to today's Wonder of the Day, Sian Pi!  We appreciate you joining us almost every day this summer to WONDER! You ROCK! :)  p 
 p If I had a panda, I would name him Po from Dreamworks Kung Fu Panda.  p 
 p I think that that is an amazing name, Lawrence! That is such a good idea! Maybe one day, you will get a pet panda of your own!  p 
 p Thanks for joining the conversation, Wonder Friend! Maybe you can adopt a panda and sponsor him while he still lives in the wild! :)  p 
 p We think that sounds like a WONDERful name, Lawrence!  Thanks for stopping by Wonderopolis and leaving us an AWESOME comment today! :)  p 
 p Can all bears climb tree or only sun bear and pandas can climb trees.  p 
 p Welcome back, Roman.  You have lots of WONDERS about bears.  We encourage you to check a book out at the library so you can explore ALL of your questions about bears.  We'd LOVE to hear what you learn! :)  p 
 p if a panda was your pet can it bite you?  p 
 p WONDERful question, Daivionne!  Panda's have teeth and are wild animals, so if you tried to keep one as a pet, they would probably bite you.  We're so proud of you for spending time WONDERing today! :)  p 
 p I hope the Chinese panda reserves will restore a balance of the population of pandas and humans. It is also good to see that humans are starting to care about others before themselves.  p 
 p We are glad that the population of the panda appears to be slowly rising too, Andre'.  Thank you for sharing your opinion with us today. :)  p 
 p Pandas are a big responsibility, they might look cute and everything and wish that you would have a panda as a pet but you really don't know how much pandas carry. Pandas eat 20-40 pounds of bamboo and they don't really get sick of the same thing, they eat A LOT of bamboo which also means they go to the bathroom like a million times!! Pandas are the rarest in bear species, they are suddenly getting endangered. Some scientists say that there are only 1,000 more pandas left in the wild but some are saying like 3,000 which is a big difference. We are the reason why pandas are dying, the pandas think that we are a threat to them and they think that they should stay away because we're killing them (we can't kill pandas now, but still we shouldn't harm them in anyway)!  p 
 p Wow!  You sure have some awesome thinking with this Wonder of the Day, pbednarczyk.  Is there anything you are still WONDERing about after reading the Wonder?  We hope to hear from you again soon! :)  p 
 p I learned that the pandas are rare and that it is difficult for the pandas to mate even with conservation efforts. :(  p 
 p It makes us sad that pandas are rare, too, Wonder Friend.  What is something you could do to help the panda population?  Happy WONDERing!  p 
 p Pandas are rare bears with small numbers. We need to be aware that fewer and fewer pandas are being left in the world. Fortunately, their numbers are also slowly increasing!  p 
 p We can't imagine a world without panda bears in it, so we sure hope the numbers keep increasing.  Thank you for WONDERing with us today, lareyes. :)  p 
 p Pandas are rare and delicate bears. We need to keep our eye on them to help them survive. Their numbers were decreasing, but fortunately, their numbers are also slowly increasing!  p 
 p We loved that you used the word 'delicate' to describe panda bears.  What a great way to describe them!  We're so glad you joined us today! :)  p 
 p I have learned that pandas are our most important priority right now and we have to keep getting there number to rise with only 3000 or so left that's not enough! Poaching should stop as well as us destroying their habitats!!  p 
 p We love it when our WONDER Friends like you, Alyssa share your learning with us.  What do you think you and your friends could do to help protect the habitats of the panda bears?  p 
 p What kind of family were pandas from? Like wolves are from dogs and lions are from cats. What pandas from?  p 
 p SUPER question, Roman.  Panda bears are related to other bears. Thank you for spending time WONDERing with us today! :)  p 
 p This taught me that there aren't as many pandas as I thought.  I thought we wouldn't have to worry but we only have 3000 left!!!  p 
 p It is surprising how few pandas are left in the world.  We look forward to WONDERing with you again soon!  p 
 p I think it's sad that pandas are dying too. I wish we could help them but I think that the one and best way to help them is to leave them alone. We shouldn't be trying to breed them or keep them in zoos because they were fine without us before we started doing that. They started dying when we did try to help them. So in my opinion I think the most helpful way to help them is by letting them be free.  p 
 p We think it is sad that pandas are dying too, Skyla.  We appreciate you sharing your opinion with us today.  p 
 p Pandas population currently stands at 3000. The cause of the decrease of the population is due to poachers killing them for their worthless fur coats. Pandas should not be harmed for fashion. I would do anything to help the panda population. Pandas are friendly to us so we shouldn't go out into the wild and harm them.  p 
 p We think the decrease in the panda population is sad and don't think they should be harmed either.  What kinds of things do you think you could do to help the panda population?  Thanks for spending time WONDERing with us, Josue.  p 
 p I think Pandas population will increase if we don't pose ourselves as a threat and if we don't hurt them.  p 
 p Thank you for sharing your thinking about helping the panda population.  What do you think you and your friends could do to help protect the panda population?  p 
 p We can help the pandas if we don't pose ourselves as a threat and if we don't hurt them.  p 
 p Thank you for sharing this information and continuing to WONDER with us!  Be sure to check out Wonder #152 - How Does a Species Become Endangered? a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder how-does-a-species-become-endangered " target="_blank" rel="nofollow"   a  to continue WONDERing about other ways to protect animals.  p 
 p Cool! I liked that a lot.  p 
 p Pandas population easily decreases and take large responsibility. They also consume a lot of food with large clean up! Scientists, experts and DNA analysis show and support many theories of the population of the endangered animals. Pandas not only have been proached for valuable fur but have lost their habitats as well. We all hope the population for endangered pandas increases.  p 
 p Thanks for sharing what your learned from today's Wonder. We hope their numbers continue to increase, too!  p 
 p I learned that pandas eat 12 hours a day. I also learned  pandas are an endangered species. One last thing I learned is where to find a panda  p 
 p Pandas sure do eat a lot, don't they, A.Swajnos! We're glad you learned some cool things about pandas. Thanks for WONDERing with us!  p 
 p I love Pandas they're sooooooooooooooo cute. It's sad that people want too kill them. :( but on the bright side I love them awesomely :)    p 
 p Yes, Mackensie! They are so cute, that we can understand why you love them sooooo much! We also think it is sad that they are becoming so rare. We have to make sure that we protect their habitat! Thanks for sharing with us today, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,

 We really liked the video and today's wonder!
 We learned  about pandas. Some of them were cute.
This wonder was cool!
 We hope that the panda population grows.
We think tomorrow's wonder will be about writing being complacated.
From Jimmy&amp;Mac  p 
 p Hello, Jimmy &amp; Mac! We are so happy to have you WONDERing and Learning with us today! We also hope that the panda population continues to grow! Check back with us tomorrow to find out if your Wonder Prediction was correct! Enjoy, Wonder Friends! :-)  p 
 p Dear wonderopolis,
 I love pandas I would protect the pandas as much as I can. they are so cute and fluffy. I do not want the pandas to be extinct  forever and ever. I will never harm pandas.
  
   I LIKE THIS WONDER SOO MUCH!!!
 

The video was so so cute! Was that cake made of bamboo? 
I can not believe that  the small and cute panda was turning 1 year old.
HOW CUTE!!!


                 Love,
                     Melanie  p 
 p We agree, Melanie! He is adorable! Great question about the cake! We're not sure what it was made out of, although we hope it was something other than sugar. ;-) Thanks for WONDERing with us today! :-)  p 
 p Dear Wonderopolis,

    Pandas are soooooooo cute and fluffy. I liked the video it was so cute. The pandas were cute 1 year old panda! The passage was great and interesting. 

    I felt sad about the pandas :(.  Why instead of killing them they shave or not hurt but,don't kill them.
    
     I'm guessing that the next wonder is going to be about some thing easy but then you make it sound even harder than it really is.    



     Your wonder friend, 
  
                Jocelyn.   :)  p 
 p WONDERful, Jocelyn! We're so happy that you enjoyed this Wonder today! It is sad that Pandas used to be hunted for their skin. We hope that a lot of that has stopped, now. Check back with us tomorrow to find out what the next Wonder will be! :-)  p 
 p Dear wonderopolis, 

   I liked the video. The video was cool.
    
     I liked today's wonder.
   
   I made a piccolloge about paragraph 11. 

 From,
           Yuridia  p 
 p WONDERful, Yuridia! Did you submit your pic to the Wonder Gallery? We would love to see it! Thanks for sharing, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p They are amazing and cute those pandas! I wish they didn't eat and use the bathroom so much!!! Hope you all have a nice day! Thanks for this site is there anything on gravity?  p 
 p Yes, they are adorable, Infinity Nasir! Too bad about the mess. ;-) We do have a Wonder on gravity. Check this out:

 a href="http:  wonderopolis.org wonder when-is-being-grounded-good " target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Wonder #372: When Is Being Grounded Good?  a 

Enjoy, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p I love pandas.   p 
 p We do too, Rex! They are just so cute! We're glad that you enjoyed this Wonder with us today! :-)  p 
 p I love pandas they are soo cute !!!!! And their babies too !!! And they carry their babies on their back  p 
 p We agree, Sara! They are so adorable! We wish we could give them a hug, but then we remember that they are wild animals. Thanks for WONDERing with us today, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p I learned that pandas are endangered species.I also learned that pandas eat for about twelve hours.Another thing I learned from the article was that they search mates in the Spring. One last thing I did not know was the giant pandas birth rate  is quite slow.  p 
 p WONDERful, J.ramos! Thank you for sharing what you learned from today's Wonder! Keep WONDERing! :-)  p 
 p I learned that there is only about 3,000 panda in the wild..  p 
 p That's right, D. Dossett! It is good to know that the number is continuing to go up. That is a good thing. Thanks for WONDERing with us today! :-)  p 
 p I love pandas! Ever since my Trip to China from the U.S., I've always wanted one! They are adorable and anyone and everyone will fall in love with them once you see them! Looking into their eyes makes your heart melt!  p 
 p We agree, Elyssa! They are adorable! How cool that you've been able to travel to China to see one! Thanks for sharing, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p I learned that pandas enemy's are human being.  p 
 p They hate human beings  p 
 p We don't think pandas hate human beings, Aj, but humans have made life very difficult for pandas. It's a good thing their numbers are back on the rise!  p 
 p That's right, Amaury! We are tearing down their natural habitat, which also includes their food source, which is bamboo. What do you think we could do to help the panda's? Keep WONDERing, Wonder Friend! :-)  p 
 p I would keep a panda as a pet, as long as it was British, like me!  p 
 p Hi, Morgan! Panda bears look so cute and cuddly, you would think they would make good pets. Yet, we have to remember that they are wild animals that eat a lot! It's probably best to get a stuffed panda toy, as opposed to the real thing. Thanks for sharing with us today! :-)  p 
 p Hey, Wonder Friends! We LOVE hearing from you and want you to join our
                Wonder conversation! Before you submit your comment, please remember:  p 
 p Comments are subject to approval and may not be published if they are not appropriate for the Wonder discussion. Thanks!  p 
 p  span How Much Information Can We Memorize?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does the Sky Change Color at Sunrise and Sunset?  span   p 
 p  span Why Does Cold Air Feel Crisp?  span   p 
 p  span How Do Mobile Phones Affect the Ecosystem?  span   p 
 p  span Are Naps Good for the Human Body?  span   p 
 p #1233  p 
 p class="hint for-big"  span class="orange" Drag  span  a word to its  span class="green" definition  span   p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="for-small" Select a Wonder Word:  p 
 p class="for-small" Match its definition:  p 
 p class="for-small"  span class="orange" Word  span  span class="green" Match  span   p 
 p class="border" You’ve matched all of the definitions correctly.  p 
 p #1233  p 
 p class="top" Question  b 1  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class="top" Question  b 2  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class='\"FreeForm\"' How much bamboo would you need to keep on hand each day if you had a giant panda as a pet?  p 
 p class="top" Question  b 3  b  of  b 3  b   p 
 p class='\"FreeForm\"' Recent scientific studies using DNA analysis have estimated that there may be as many as how many giant pandas left in the wild?  p 
 p class="top" Quiz Results  p 
 p You have answered  b id="fnc-num-answered" 0  b  of  b 3  b  questions correctly and your score is:
                          p 
 p Subscribe to Wonderopolis and receive
            the Wonder of the Day® via email or SMS  p 
 p Don’t miss our special deals, gifts and promotions. Be the first to know!  p 
 p Tell everybody about Wonderopolis and its wonders.  p 
 p Interested in sharing Wonderopolis® every day? Want to add a little wonder to your website? Help spread the wonder of families learning together.  p 
 p 2014–2019 © National Center for Families Learning  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" http:  wonderopolis.org wonder why-are-pandas-rare  p 
 p class="for-print" style="display: none" © National Center for Families Learning (NCFL)  p 
