 p  strong See the Lives of Pandas from the Inside!  strong   p 
 p Have you ever wondered what lies inside the “restricted” areas of the panda’s enclosure? Live your dream as an Honorary Panda Keeper, and go behind-the-scenes to see the lives of panda as never before! You’ll learn what it takes to care for them every day!  p 
 p  strong Caring for Pandas is Hard Work!  strong   p 
 p Put on your special uniform and learn how to prepare the panda’s toys and meals with our experts. You’ll also watch a training demonstration with the giant panda. You’ll even get a chance to enter their VIP room, and help our keepers tidy and clean up. Learn more about the threats facing wild pandas in their habitat, and what you can do to help keep them safe!  p 
 p  strong A Panda   strong  strong Moment to Remember!  strong   p 
 p Learn about the fun secrets behind-the-scenes at the giant panda enclosure! Our animal keepers will share funny stories about their job taking care of panda. It’s your time to discover everything you ever wanted to know about these intelligent animals!  p 
 p class="noPadding"  strong Smart Tips:  strong   p 
 p  strong Venue:  strong  br 
Amazing Asian Animals  p 
 p class="noPadding"  strong Participants:  strong   p 
 p  strong Time:  strong  br 
9:15am – 10:30am (Available on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays &amp; Fridays; pre-booking enrollment only)  p 
 p class="noPadding"  strong Price:  strong   p 
 p  strong Capacity:  strong  br 
4 participants per tour  p 
 p  strong Language:  strong  br 
Cantonese, supplemented by English and Putonghua.  p 
 p  strong Gathering Point:   strong  br 
"Conservation Kiosk" next to Ticketing Office, Main Entrance  p 
 p  strong Enquiry Hotline:   strong  br 
(852) 3923 2323 br 
(Select the language and press [4] for Ocean Park Discovery &amp; Education Department.)  p 
 p class="noPadding"  strong Note:  strong   p 
 p class="btn_terms"  b  u Other Terms and Conditions  u   b   p 
 p  strong Who can join the programme?  strong   p 
 p For the health and safety of all participants, staff and animals, every participant must meet the following criteria in order to participate in the programme. Participants must be aware that such programme involves a degree of unpredictability, where quick reactions and strict attention to directions from the Park's staff are essential. If at any time during the programme any participant is assessed by the Park's staff as not being able to fulfil the following criteria, he she will be asked to leave the programme and he she must immediately comply with such directions.  p 
 p  strong Section I: Criteria for participation  strong   p 
 p  strong Section II: General Information  strong   p 
 p It is highly recommended to make a reservation via internet prior to attending the Park due to the limited capacity. Please contact Discovery &amp; Education Department at (852) 3923-2323 (select the language and press [4]) for any queries. Applications will be considered on a first-come-first-served basis.  p 
 p class="noPadding" Information can be obtained from the following locations:  p 
 p class="noPadding"  strong Application Procedure  strong   p 
 p  strong Section III: Cancellation  strong   p 
 p class="noPadding" Cancellation of the Programme may be made in the following circumstances:  p 
 p Programme will be re-scheduled for the affected participants under the above mentioned circumstances.  p 
 p  strong Ocean Park Corporation (the "Park" or "we")  strong   p 
 p  strong Personal Information Collection Statement  strong   p 
 p Our collection of your personal information in this case is for the reasons set out below and we aim to process and hold such information on the basis of the guidelines and principles set out in this Statement and in our Privacy Policy Statement which applies generally to information held by us. We seek to comply fully with the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Chapter 486) of the laws of Hong Kong.  p 
 p We have created this Statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to your privacy and to disclose our information gathering and dissemination practices.  p 
 p  strong Manner of Collection  strong   p 
 p We primarily collect personal information directly by requesting that you complete forms or questionnaires, and also in connection with provision of services, activities or facilities to you at your request.  p 
 p We may also collect information regarding your internet protocol address, browser type, domain name and access time.  p 
 p  strong Personal Data which may be Collected  strong   p 
 p From time to time, it is necessary for you to supply us with different categories of personal information in connection with our provision of services, activities and facilities, depending on the nature of the services, activities and facilities offered. The personal information we collect may include (but not limited to) your name, age, title, position, address, contact number (including mobile phone and fax numbers) and email address. The personal information may also relate to other persons relevant to the information, services, activities or facilities you have requested, for example, personal information of your children or other family members. The provision of personal data or any information is voluntary, but any failure to supply the necessary personal data or information requested may result in us being unable to process your requests or provide the services, activities and facilities requested by you.  p 
 p Certain education or other programmes or activities offered by us are group activities and will be conducted within the habitat in which the animals or organisms live at Ocean Park or on the Park's premises. Such activities are also conducted during operating hours of the Park and guests other than the participants will be able to observe the encounter. For this reason, there are chances a participant may be photographed by our staff or other participants of such activities or guests within the habitat or on the premises. It is therefore a condition that each participant of such activities unconditionally agrees to be photographed by our staff or other participants or guests during the course of the activities. Submission of the application to participate in the relevant activities constitutes the acceptance of this condition by the applicant.  p 
 p We may also generate and compile information about you. Personal data and other information provided by you or generated and compiled by us about you from time to time is collectively referred to as "Your Information".  p 
 p  strong Use of Your Information  strong   p 
 p class="noPadding" We may use Your Information for one or more of the following purposes from time to time:  p 
 p If personal data is to be displayed after collection, e.g. in announcing contest winners details, due care will be given to anonymize it and to advise you in advance.  p 
 p  strong Disclosure of Your Information  strong   p 
 p We value all personal information received and do our best to maintain its privacy. Except with your prior consent or as required by law, we will not transfer or disclose Your Information to any third party except that we may transfer or disclose Your Information in or outside Hong Kong as stated below (and we will not transfer Your Information to another party for it to use in direct marketing):-  p 
 p You should note that as we have no control over the acts of any third party that is not our agent (e.g. any governmental agency to whom we are required to disclose Your Information), the privacy protection stated in this Statement ceases to apply to any information which has been disclosed to such a third party in accordance with this Statement. We endeavour to deal only with responsible third parties but assume no responsibility for the privacy protection provided by such third parties.  p 
 p  strong Use of Your Information in Direct Marketing  strong   p 
 p We are allowed to use Your Information in direct marketing only if you consent or do not object.  p 
 p In connection with direct marketing, we intend:  p 
 p class="noPadding" products and services provided by our business associations and partners include:  p 
 p  strong Data Access and Correction  strong   p 
 p You are entitled to access any personal data we hold about you, and if applicable to correct or update it. You also have the right to request details of our privacy policy and the types of personal data we hold.  p 
 p If you wish to exercise any such right, please send an e-mail to our Guest Relations Manager at  a href="matilto:gr@oceanpark.com.hk" gr@oceanpark.com.hk  a or write to:  p 
 p Guest Relations Manager br 
Ocean Park Corporation br 
Ocean Park, Aberdeen, Hong Kong br 
Telephone : (852) 3923 2323 br 
Facsimile : (852) 2873 5584  p 
 p Part of the programme proceeds will go to the Ocean Park Conservation Foundation, Hong Kong to support its research projects and public awareness programmes for wildlife conservation in Asia.  p 
 p Minimum 1 day’s advance booking before 5pm.  p 
 p Minimum 1 day’s advance booking before 5pm.  p 
 p Let's get closer to the animals!  p 
