 p id="skip-link" 
       a href="#main-menu" class="element-invisible element-focusable" Jump to navigation  a 
      p 
 p 
 This final rule downgrades the Mariana fruit bat from endangered to threatened throughout its range in the Mariana archipelago, which is subject to US jurisdiction.  The reason for the down grade is the FWS initially made a mistake in the taxonomy of the Mariana fruit bat.  When the FWS listed the bat as endangered on Guam in 1984, it believed that the bat was a species only endemic to Guam.  Since that time, the FWS has discovered that the bat is endemic to the entire Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) and the Territory of Guam.
  p 
 p    p 
 p FEDERAL REGISTER, Vol. 70, No. 004, Rules and Regulations, United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS),  span  50 CFR Part 17   span  ,  span  RIN 1018-AH55,   span  70 FR 1190  p 
 p  br   strong  Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Mariana Fruit Bat (Pteropus mariannus mariannus): Reclassification From Endangered to Threatened in the Territory of Guam and Listing as Threatened in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands   strong   p 
 p    p 
 p Action: FINAL RULE  p 
 p Effective:  span      span  2 7 05  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong  Overview   strong   p 
 p This final rule downgrades the Mariana fruit bat from endangered to threatened throughout its range in the Mariana archipelago, which is subject to US jurisdiction.  span      span  The reason for the down grade is the FWS initially made a mistake in the taxonomy of the Mariana fruit bat.  span      span  When the FWS listed the bat as endangered on Guam in 1984, it believed that the bat was a species only endemic to Guam.  span      span  Since that time, the FWS has discovered that the bat is endemic to the entire Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) and the Territory of Guam, thus there is actually a larger number of bats with a wider distribution.  span      span  Yet, threats to the Mariana fruit bat still remain, so its listing as threatened is still warranted.  span      span  Additionally, it is more convenient for the FWS to update the listing of the Mariana fruit bat to threatened in the entire Mariana archipelago, than to keep the species in the Guam as endangered and hold the remainder of the archipelago as threatened.  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong  Biological Background   strong   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  The Mariana archipelago is a set of 15 islands made up of the CNMI and Guam.  span       span   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span   span      span  The Mariana fruit bat is an endemic species, meaning that they are found nowhere but the Mariana archipelago.  span      span   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  The habitat of the Mariana fruit bat is native forest, and they forage in coconut groves.  span      span   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  Fruit bats are important components of tropical forest ecosystems because they disperse plant seeds and thereby help maintain forest diversity and contribute to plant regeneration following typhoons and other catastrophic events (Cox  em  et al.   em  1992).  span      span   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  The fruit bat had seen a step decrease in habitat due to:  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Agriculture, such as large sugar plantations, and free-roaming livestock have converted much of the native forest to pasture,  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Steady increase in the human population in the archipelago,  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Destruction of native forest during bombing and extensive military development during World War II,  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Domination of alien vegetation in native forests as a result of the introduction of nonnative plant species to prevent erosion,  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Feral ungulates (wild hoofed animals [goats, pigs, cattle, etc.])  p 
 p  span   span  o  span           span    span    span  Eruption of the Anatahan volcano in 2003 and continuing volcanic activity  p 
 p    p 
 p  strong  Previous Federal Action   strong   p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  listed as endangered on Guam in 1984  p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  proposed rule published expressing the intent of the FWS to list the Mariana fruit bat in Guam  em  and   em  all of the rest CNMIs as threatened on 3 26 98  p 
 p  span  -  span             span    span  this act was published pursuant to a settlement agreement issued by the court in  em  Center for Biological Diversity   em  v.  em  Norton   em  .  p 
 p    p 
 p © 2019 Michigan State University  a href="http:  www.law.msu.edu " College of Law  a . This site is not a law firm and cannot offer legal advice.  p 
