 p Hammers pounded, kids squealed and there were a whole lot of "ah ha" moments at the Lewis and Clark Interpretive Center on Saturday at an event held to promote better understanding of a misunderstood flying mammal.  p 
 p "Anything we can do to dispel the myth that bats are yucky," said Laura Conway, forest biologist for the Lewis and Clark National Forest.  "They are really cool animals, and they are also misunderstood."  p 
 p The Great Falls event was part of a national "Bat Day" event with a goal to build 5,000 bat houses. By noon, staff and participants had assembled about five of the 25 wooden bat house kits on hand. The houses will be placed on National Forest Service cabins and administrative buildings in the Lewis and Clark Forest to give the animals a warm place to roost that keeps them safe from predators.  p 
 p "Bats already live in houses, even houses in Great Falls, in the eves or in the attics," Conway said. "We've found them here at the Interpretive Center roosting in the elevator shaft."  p 
 p In addition to the creepy factor, bat droppings, called guano, can be icky, too, when it builds up inside structures.  p 
 p "But if you give a bat a place to go that is warm and safe, then the hope is that they won't be roosting where you don't want them," Conway said.  p 
 p The bat houses placed in the forest will be monitored for use, said Kristina Smucker, a Montana Fish Wildlife and Parks wildlife biologist.  p 
 p Bats typically have a single offspring in a year and there are tangible benefits to ensuring the survival of those baby bats.  p 
 p Bats can eat up to 1,000 flying insects — think mosquitoes — in a single hour, and more if the bat is pregnant or nursing a baby.  p 
 p Although it has not shown up in Montana, white nose syndrome is a fungus that has killed 6 million bats in the eastern United States. The hit to the bat population in those areas is resulting in a rising insect population. In addition to bugs that bedevil people, such as mosquitoes, bats feast on pests that damage crops.  p 
 p A study published in the magazine "Science" estimates that bats provide an annual benefit in pest control in North America worth $3.7 billion to $22.9 billion.  p 
 p Hazel and Rommel Tiratira of Calgary are visiting Great Falls this weekend with their sons Rosh, 10, and Rom, 12. They decided to tour the Interpretive Center after the clerk at their hotel told them about it. The bat house building event was a surprise bonus to their trip.  p 
 p While the boys played a modified game of Blind Man's Bluff, with a blindfold bat trying to find buzzing insects, the couple, who are originally from the Philippines, visited with the event volunteers.  p 
 p "In the Philippines, there is a fable told to children that says if the go out at night, they will be taken by a half man, half bat creature," Conway said. "It is a story told to keep children inside at night. Those are myths we want to dispel, but truthfully, I probably told a few similar stories to my own children."  p 
 p For more information on bats, go to www.batcon.org  p 
