 p  strong Guidelines for the Protection of Biodiversity in Construction Projects  strong . Click  a href=" files Construction_v12.pdf" target="_blank" here  a  to download  p 
 p  strong Irish Construction Industry Magazine Article on biodiversity &amp; development.  strong  Click  a href=" files Going%20Native%20Construction.pdf" target="_blank" here  a  to download  p 
 p Construction projects, whether commercial developments, housing estates, infrastructure or public-sector projects, all have the potential to damage natural habitats, threatening wildlife and plant species.   p 
 p The National Road Authority has published guidance documents to provide a step by step approach to minimising impacts on badgers, bats, watercourse crossings prior to and during the construction phase of national road schemes. Please  a href="http:  www.nra.ie Environment EnvironmentalPlanningGuidelines " click here  a  for more information. It sets out measures for species-specific links including the passage of mammals under roads, bridges and culverts on roadways. The National Parks and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Environment, Heritage and Local Government must be notified if otter, bat or badger habitats are encountered prior to construction. Badgers are protected under the Wildlife Act 1976 (as amended in 2000), all bat species are protected under the Wildlife Act 1976 (as amended in 2000) and EU Habitats Directive (92 43 EEC) while otters are given additional protection under Annex II and Annex IV of the EU Habitats Directive (92 43 EEC).   p 
 p In addition, the following is recommended during the construction phase of a project:  p 
 p    p 
 p Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a process for anticipating the effects on the environment caused by a development (EPA 2002). Certain construction   development projects will always have significant environmental effects. On the basis of this, EIA is mandatory for all projects listed in Annex I of European Communities Directive 85 337 EEC (as amended by Directive 97 11 EC). Thresholds are specified in respect of most project types in Annex I. Where projects are sub-threshold it must be determined on a case-by-case basis whether it will have a significant effect on the environment, for example in terms of site sensitivity, and therefore should be subject to EIA. As part of the EIA process details of the existing environment must be provided, positive and negative potential significant impacts assessed and mitigation measures proposed to reduce, avoid or remedy any potential negative impacts identified.  p 
 p  strong   strong    p 
 p  strong Examples of possible negative impacts from a development and mitigation measures proposed:  strong   p 
 p  strong Possible Negative Impact  strong   p 
 p  strong Mitigation Measures  strong   p 
 p Sewage Pollution  p 
 p Ensure adequate percolation area is specified, or install treatment system if necessary. Consider use of constructed wetland reedbed treatment system, which also provides a new wildlife habitat.  p 
 p Loss of wildlife corridors, Habitat loss and fragmentation   p 
 p Specify designs, which fit natural contours and leave habitat blocks connected. Specify retention ponds, other water features and wildlife corridors. Condition for replacement trees and hedges (ask that native species be used). Specify bird and bat boxes to be deployed where habitat has been lost.  p 
 p Siltation: damage to fisheries and wildlife, increased water turbidity, loss of amenity  p 
 p Ensure silt is not directly released into watercourses, keep activities away from river and stream banks where possible, water must pass through settlement ponds or tanks before being pumped into watercourses.  p 
 p Loss of habitat   p 
 p Where appropriate some of the pit face can be left for breeding Sand Martins.  p 
 p Loss of bat roost sites, trapping of bats  p 
 p align="left" A full bat survey should be performed. If bats are present, NPWS staff must be informed. A licence is required for any works on bat habitats. Advice should be taken on the best time of year for the work to be done. Gaps in brickwork may be left when repointing, or special bat bricks may be used.  p 
 p Loss of Barn Owl roost and breeding sites in ruins and old farm buildings.  p 
 p A survey should be performed. If owls are present, NPWS staff must be informed and advice should be taken on the best time of year for the work to be done. Nesting boxes can be erected where nest sites have been lost.   p 
 p Loss of habitat.  br Acidification of water bodies.  p 
 p Specify restoration post harvesting, if applicable. Mixed conifer broadleaved plantings sustain higher biodiversity levels than conifer only plantations. Avoid large plantations by lakes or along riverbanks; these can cause water acidification.  p 
 p Loss of habitat. Habitat fragmentation. The cutting of traditional wildlife routes.  p 
 p Avoid important habitats if possible. Specify habitat replacement creation where possible (e.g. new tree planting with bird and bat boxes). Special tunnels for Otter and Badger may be applicable where traditional travel routes are cut. NPWS can advise.   p 
 p align="left" Source: Taken directly from  a href="http:  www.westmeathcoco.ie " Biodiversity &amp; Development in County Westmeath  a . Good Practice Guidelines for the Local Authority. Westmeath Co Co.  p 
 p    p 
 p If a development falls outside the requirements for a mandatory or sub-threshold EIA, legal requirements need to be taken into account, as follows:  p 
 p The National Parks and Wildlife Service of the DEHLG must be notified: strong   strong   p 
 p align="left"  strong   strong    p 
 p align="left" Those in the construction industry have an important role to play in protecting our biodiversity from invasive species. Follow these simple actions to help combat the spread of alien species.  p 
 p align="left"  strong Inspect equipment  strong   br Inspect equipment that has been in a waterbody or terrestrial site for attached vegetation, contaminated soil or obvious animal life before moving to another site. Remove this material before relocating (this can often be done by power hosing equipment).   p 
 p align="left"  strong Do not grow invasive alien species on your site  strong  br Before choosing plants for a site, make sure that they are not invasive, non-native species. Ask for advice in your garden centre and request plants from local origin and from certified sources. See the Invasive Species Ireland Horticulture Guidelines:  a href="http:  www.invasivespeciesireland.com downloads codes.asp" http:  www.invasivespeciesireland.com downloads codes.asp  a    p 
 p align="left"  strong Report sitings of non-native species br   strong Log any sitings of non-native species on the ‘Alien Watch’ part of the Invasive Species Ireland Project website by clicking  a href="http:  www.invasivespeciesireland.com sighting " target="_blank" here  a .   p 
 p align="left" In particular, watch out for Japanese Knotweed, as this species can grow through concrete and tarmac and can seriously damage buildings and other infrastructure. It is extremely hard to control and is very environmentally and economically damaging. There is a legal obligation to take action against invasive species as the Wildlife Amendment Act 2000, states that anyone who plants, or causes to grow exotic species, is guilty of an offence.    p 
 p align="left" Go to the  a href="www.invasivespeciesireland.com" target="_blank" Invasive Species Ireland   a website for more information and see their  a href="http:  www.invasivespeciesireland.com downloads BPM.asp" target="_blank" Best Practice Management Guidelines of Invasive Sepcies br   a   p 
 p    p 
