 p id="title"  a href="http:  www.habitatforbats.org " title="Home" Habitat For Bats  a   p 
 p  em Here is a collection of bat facts you may not know!   em   p 
 p  strong  em Bats and Disease  em   strong   p 
 p There has been considerable debate over bats and rabies recently. Some statements taken out of context make it seem as if bats are an epidemic and public health threat. While the core fact of a statement may be true the entire context should be understood so you can appreciate the true meaning of the data. The CDC has published the statement “ em The most common source of human rabies in the USA is from bats.  em ” While the CDC has done the research and this may be true the media fails to bring drama to the rest of the information. Here is the entire paragraph as stated by the CDC.  p 
 p  em “Rabies in humans is rare in the USA. There are usually 1-2 human cases per year. The most common source of human rabies in the USA is from bats. For example, among the 19 naturally acquired cases of rabies in humans in the USA from 1997-2006, 17 were associated with bats. Among these, 14 patients had known encounters with bats. Four people awoke because a bat landed on them and one person awoke because a bat bit him (these events occurred within their primary residences). One person was reportedly bitten by a bat from outdoors while he was exiting from his residence. Six persons had a history of handling a bat while removing it from their primary residences. One person was bitten by a bat while releasing it outdoors after finding it on the floor inside a building. One person picked up and tried to care for a sick bat found on the ground outdoors. Three males ages 20, 29 and 64 had no reported encounters with bats but died of bat-associated rabies viruses.  em ”  p 
 p Once you read the entire statement you begin to realize a few things. We are talking about 17 “associated” cases over the course of a decade. Of these cases 8 of them involved people who intentionally handled a sick bat. After reading the entire statement it should be clear that rabid bats are not an epidemic but rather a rare occurrence at best. Having had direct experience with people and bats illustrates that we ourselves skew the numbers in favor of contracting the disease from bats. It seems we are much more likely to try and pickup and assist a sick bat than say a squirrel, a raccoon or a fox.  p 
 p Even the CDC acknowledges the low risk and the benefits of bats in the ecosystem.  a href="http:  www.cdc.gov rabies bats " target="_blank" Visit the CDC bat pages.  a   p 
 p  strong Never pick up any wild animal, including bats, that are acting oddly.   strong If you do need to remove a bat from your home you should first try to open the door and let it fly out on its own. If that doesn’t work you should use leather gloves and a shoe box to carefully trap the bat and release it outside.  p 
 p References:  p 
 p Organizations: br 
Bat Conservation International br 
The world of bats is large and diverse. Many people claim to know all about them but the leading researchers and experts are located at Bat Conservation International (BCI). You can visit their website at  a href="http:  www.batcon.org " target="_blank" www.batcon.org  a  or contact them through their website. They are truly wonderful people who genuinely care about bats.  p 
 p Center for Disease Control br 
 a href="http:  www.cdc.gov " target="_blank" www.cdc.gov  a   p 
 p Books: br 
Americas Neighborhood Bats by Dr. Merlin Tuttle br 
Bats in Questions by Don E. Wilson br 
Bats of America by Barbour &amp; Davis  p 
 p Videos: br 
Building Homes for Bats  p 
 p A single little brown bat can consume more than 1,000 mosquito sized insects in an hour. Consider that a modest colony of 75 bats can devour up to 75,000 insects in a single hour. A single chamber house of BCI design can hold a colony of 50 little brown bats; while larger nursery boxes (like the 4 chamber nursery box) can house hundreds.
  p 
 p Copyright © 2019 · All Rights Reserved · Habitat For Bats  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.organicthemes.com themes " target="_blank" Non Profit Theme  a  by  a href="http:  www.organicthemes.com" target="_blank" Organic Themes  a  ·  a href="http:  www.habitatforbats.org feed " RSS Feed  a  ·  a href="http:  www.habitatforbats.org h4b-current wp-login.php" Log in  a   p 
