 p A Guide to Identification and Assessment for Tree-Care and Ecology Professionals  p 
 p Shipped from UK EU or USA depending on your location  p 
 p This is a guide to finding tree-roosts. It is the result of the collaborative efforts of professional surveyors and amateur naturalists across Europe as part of the  em Bat Tree Habitat Key  em  project, and represents a combination of firsts:  p 
 p It is the first time legislation and planning policy have been reviewed and put to practical use to define an analysis framework with clearly identifiable thresholds for action. Yet, despite its efficacy in a professional context, it is also the first time a guide has been produced that is equally effective in achieving its objective for amateurs.  p 
 p It is the first time such a method has been evidence-supported throughout, with summary reviews of each aspect of the roosting ecology of the individual 14 tree-roosting species, with illustrative photographs and data to which the reader has open access.  p 
 p It is the first time a repeatable analysis framework has been defined against which the surveyor may compare their results at every stage, from the desk-study, through ground-truthing, survey and analysis, thereby ensuring nothing is overlooked and that every result can be objectively compared. The survey and analysis framework itself is ground-breaking in that it may readily be adapted for any taxa; from moths, through amphibians, reptiles, birds and all other mammals.  p 
 p Used diligently, these methods will reward disproportionately and imbue the reader with renewed confidence as they quickly progress from beginner to competency. Thus, this book is for everyone who has ever wanted to find a tree-roost, or to safeguard against inadvertently damaging one.  p 
 p This book is aimed at tree-care professionals and ecologists, but will also be of use to amateur naturalists.  p 
 p Ch 1. Rationale br -Introduction br -Pre-existing published advice br -Motivation br -Objective br -Proportionality  p 
 p Ch 2. Tree-Roosting Bats br -Tree-roosting bat species br -Wooded habitat and tree species br -Sensitivity to isolation br -Seasonal tree-roost occupancy and roost size br -Roost heights br -General tree-roost preferences  p 
 p Ch 3. Potential Roost Features br -Introduction br -The Disease and Decay PRF br -The Damage PRF br -The Association PRF  p 
 p Ch 4. Intelligence-Gathering br -Introduction br -Resources br -Collation of the results  p 
 p Ch 5. The Desk-Study br -Introduction br -The desk-study objective br -The test of 'reasonable likelihood' br -To survey or not to survey  p 
 p Ch 6. Ground-Truthing br -Introduction br -Ground-truthing method br -Ground-truthing interpretation  p 
 p Ch 7. Choosing Surveillance Methods br -Introduction br -Close-inspection br -Remote-observation br -Static-netting br -Radio-tracking br -Putting it all together br -The proportionality text  p 
 p Ch 8. Close-Inspection br -Introduction br -Equipment br -Health and Safety br -Close-inspection method br -Interpretation  p 
 p Ch 9. Remote-Observation br -Introduction br -Confounding factors br -Equipment br -Health and Safety br -Remote-observation method br -Interpretation  p 
 p Ch 10. Static-Netting br -Introduction br -Equipment br -Health and Safety br -Static-netting method br -Interpretation  p 
 p Ch 11. Surveillance Effort br -Introduction br -Detectability variables br -Surveillance periods and intensity therein  p 
 p Ch 12. Trouble-Shooting br -Introduction br -Fundamental principles br -Inconclusive and 'null' results br -Indirect damage and disturbance br -Comparative assessment of environment br -Late commissions br -Unlicensed assessments br -Getting a second-opinion br -Fault-finding  p 
 p  em Bat Tree Habitat Key  em  is an entirely altruistic collaborative project, set up by Henry Andrews, that has been running since 2010. The project objective is to provide an identical detailed account of how each bat species exploits trees as roost sites. This is achieved by data review, collection and analysis within a standardised format, as well as the collection of photographic accounts, which may be contributed by anyone, and are made publicly available for everyone (see www.battreehabitatkey.co.uk and an associated Facebook page). Regardless of political upheaval, the egalitarian nature of  em Bat Tree Habitat Key  em  combined with the active encouragement of criticism, continues to foster a sense of camaraderie between naturalists of all levels and walks of life across Europe, and the wider world.  p 
 p Pelagic Publishing is an independent academic publisher of books on wildlife, science and conservation.  p 
 p Founded in 2010, we specialise in books that deliver cutting-edge knowledge, published rapidly in traditional and eBook formats.  p 
