 p Once you've humanely removed a bat from  a href=" resources theres-bat-my-house" inside your house  a  or  a href=" resources eviction-notice-roosting-bats" evicted them from your attic  a , how can you keep bats from coming back indoors? Make sure they have plenty of places to live outdoors.  p 
 p  a href=" animals bats" Bats  a  are gaining an appreciation for their ecological contributions as pollinators, seed dispersers and insect predators. They’re also fascinating animals to watch. Sadly, though, bats are suffering from habitat loss and other hazards.  p 
 p Give bats places to stay by protecting and planting native vegetation, and leave dead trees standing as shelter, when it's safe to do so. Those with caves or abandoned mines on their property can provide fencing and signs to keep people from disturbing hibernating bats.  p 
 p Put up a  a href="http:  www.batcon.org index.php get-involved install-a-bat-house.html" target="_blank" bat house  a  to reap the benefits of having bats nearby. Whether you buy one or build your own, here are a few suggestions:  p 
 p Look for loose-fitting doors or windows, unscreened chimneys, or gaps in walls. Bats only need a gap of 3 4" to 1" to enter. Plug any gaps with door draft guards, hardware cloth, steel wool or caulking.  p 
 p If you need to  a href=" resources eviction-notice-roosting-bats" evict bats from your home  a , do so in early spring or in fall, when flightless young will not be present. Install a bat house as part of the project.  p 
 p Don't let the threat of rabies prevent you from protecting bats.  a href=" resources bats-rabies-and-public-health" Bats are rarely rabid  a —and they are unlikely to be aggressive. Bats who do contract rabies die quickly, so they don't cause an ongoing threat. Follow normal safety practices: Do not handle bats with bare hands, warn children not to handle bats, and vaccinate dogs and cats for rabies.  p 
 p class="text-disclosure"  a href="https:  uplandsoftware.com mobile-messaging terms-and-conditions " target="_blank" Message and data rates  a  may apply. Reply STOP to opt out.  p 
 p © 2019 The Humane Society of the United States  a href=" privacy-policy" Privacy Policy &amp; Terms  a   p 
 p The Humane Society of the United States is registered as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. Contributions to the HSUS are tax deductible to the extent permitted by law. The HSUS's tax identification number is 53-0225390.  p 
 p 36 beagles are enduring a cruel and unnecessary pesticide test in a Michigan lab—they need your help right now.  p 
 p 36 beagles are enduring a cruel and unnecessary pesticide test in a Michigan lab—they need your help right now.  p 
