 p Michigan’s bats are under siege from natural and man-made threats that could wipe out some populations over the next decade, experts warn.  p 
 p Disease-causing fungus, wind turbines and loss of habitat are harming the small, furry creatures in the state, which is home to nine different species.  p 
 p “Those are the three biggies,” said Allen Kurta, an author, Eastern Michigan University biology professor, researcher and bat expert. “But I would say (the disease caused by the fungus) is probably the biggest threat.”  p 
 p Pseudogymnoascus destructans is a fungus attacking the webbed-winged mammals in Michigan and 28 other states, causing a disease called white-nose syndrome.  p 
 p The white fungus, which came from Europe, thrives in cold environments where bats hibernate. It also grows on a bat’s skin, damaging it and forcing the animal to frequently wake up from hibernation. Bats with the disease use up their fat stores before winter ends and starve to death.  p 
 p “They’re under a lot of stress,” said Rob Mies, executive director of the Organization of Bat Conservation in Bloomfield Hills, which operates Bat Zone, a live animal center designed to teach the public about bats and other nocturnal animals at the Cranbrook Institute of Science.  p 
 p “Stress is bad for humans. And just like us, it’s bad for bats.”  p 
 p The disease, which only affects bats, was first detected in North America in New York in 2007. It was first found in five bats in five counties — Alpena, Dickinson, Keweenaw, Mackinac and Ontonagon — in northern Michigan in 2014. Since then, it’s spread to 11 counties.  p 
 p Kurta said the disease has mostly affected bat species that hibernate underground or in caves.  p 
 p State officials have identified five species — big brown bats, little brown bats, northern long-eared bats, tri-colored bats and Indiana bats — as the bats in Michigan most susceptible to the disease.  p 
 p Kurta predicts the disease could wipe out a couple of the state’s species of bat in the next decade.  p 
 p “I think it is quite likely we will lose one or two species, particularly the northern long-eared bat, in the long run,” he said.  p 
 p “We could see it go extinct in the Northeast within the decade. No one I know is giving the species much of a chance.”  p 
 p The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service also has designated the northern long-eared bat as a threatened species.  p 
 p  strong Wind turbine fatalities  strong   p 
 p Meanwhile, wind turbines are also killing bats in Michigan because the creatures collide with the spinning blades.  p 
 p Bats that migrate south for the winter are being affected by wind turbines and researchers are trying to figure out why.  p 
 p Michigan has 887 wind turbines, mostly in the Thumb, according to the American Wind Energy Association, a Washington, D.C., trade association.  p 
 p American Wind spokesman David Ward said the group and its members are working to reduce the number of bat fatalities caused by wind turbines.  p 
 p Last year, the association developed its best management practices expected to reduce the impact of wind turbines on bats by 30 percent, he said.  p 
 p Under the voluntary protocols, turbine operation is limited in low-wind speed conditions during the bat migration season in the fall.  p 
 p Seventeen companies across North America — including CMS Energy in Michigan — have agreed to implement the protocols, according to the association.  p 
 p  strong Critical numbers  strong   p 
 p Bats are critical to ecosystems around the world and in Michigan, experts say.  p 
 p Some bat species aid in the pollination of trees and flowers. Others eat fruit and spread seeds to other areas.  p 
 p But the diet of most bats consists of insects. As a result, the critters contribute between $528 million to $1.2 billion in pest control to Michigan’s agricultural industry, according to the state Department of Natural Resources.  p 
 p But their environments continue to shrink because of climate change, man-made development and fungus.  p 
 p “There’s also a huge loss of habitat,” Mies said. “And the bigger issue is bats only have one baby a year, and we think only 10 percent of their babies make it to a year old. The population rebounds very slowly. It can take centuries.”  p 
 p But the bat situation isn’t completely hopeless, he said.  p 
 p There’s a chance, Mies said, bats will learn to roost in places free of the fungus. Also, scientists have made progress developing treatments to help bats survive the fungus.  p 
 p “Bats are intelligent animals,” Mies said. “I don’t think it’s too late for humans, and I don’t think it’s too late for bats, but we do need to make some changes.”  p 
 p cramirez@detroitnews.com  p 
