 p At Southern Ecological Solutions (SES) we have a wealth of experienced ecologists that have conducted bat surveys followed by successful licensed mitigation schemes. These mitigation schemes are designed to meet clients ecological obligations and commercial needs in a cost  effective and pragmatic way.  p 
 p SES also has a specialist in house implementation team with expert ecological training  allowing them to carry out works on sensitive sites. With experience in installing bat boxes, qualified tree climbing, sensitive tree felling and tree  inspection.  p 
 p class="title-text" To discuss your requirements please  a href=" contact" Contact us  a  or call on  strong 01268 711021  strong .  p 
 p Over the  last century bat populations have suffered serious declines and are currently  under threat from factors such as the loss of feeding habitats and flight paths  e.g. hedgerows, woodlands and ponds; loss of prey through the extensive use of  pesticides having a detrimental effect on insect numbers and through building  and developments destroying and damaging roost sites. To ensure the  conservation of biodiversity it is recommended that developments adhere to  regulations and that an appropriate ecological bat survey is conducted to  assess the impact on bat populations.  p 
 p Bats are  the only true flying mammal, with their main source of food in Britain being  insects, which they catch whilst in flight using echolocation. They use linear  features such as hedgerows, tree lines, ditches and canals to navigate and feed  along woodland edges, marshes, slow rivers and pasture. There are 17 bat  species in Britain, the smallest being the Pipistrelle em  Pipistrellus  em   em spp  em .  bat which weighs as little as 5g (same as £1 coin!) and the largest the Greater  mouse eared bat  em Myotis myotis  em  which can weigh up to 45g (which can still  fit within the palm of your hand).  p 
 p Bats are also becoming more reliant on urban  habitats, where they roost in buildings and forage in nearby wooded parks and  gardens. Habitat choice can be species-specific and some bats will journey  further out to seek the habitat they prefer. Bats are loyal to certain roosting  sites, but use different roosts at various times of the year; during the summer  months females will seek out warmer sites such as bridges, trees and buildings  in order to raise their young and conversely during the winter months both  sexes roost in cooler structures with more stable temperatures.  p 
 p   Over the  last century bat populations have suffered serious declines and are currently  under threat from factors such as the loss of feeding habitats and flight paths  e.g. hedgerows, woodlands and ponds; loss of prey through the extensive use of  pesticides having a detrimental effect on insect numbers and through building  and developments destroying and damaging roost sites.  p 
 p   Bats are  protected under section 9 of the  a href="http:  www.jncc.gov.uk page-1377" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (as amended)  a  and regulation 40 of the a href="http:  www.opsi.gov.uk si si2007 uksi_20071843_en_1" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Conservation of  Habitats and Species Regulations 2010  a . Taken  together it is illegal to:  p 
 p   –  Deliberately kill, injure or capture any wild animal of European protected  species; br 
  –  Deliberately disturb wild animals of any European protected species in such a  way to be likely to significantly affect: br 
  – The  ability of any significant groups of animals of that species to survive, breed,  rear or nurture their young; or br 
  – The local  distribution of that species. br 
  –  Recklessly disturb roosting bats or obstruct access to their roosts; br 
  – Damage or  destroys breed sites or resting places of such animals; br 
  –  Deliberately takes or destroys the eggs of such an animal; br 
  – Possess  or transport or any part of a European protected species, unless acquired  legally; br 
  – Sell,  barter or exchange any part of a European protected species.  p 
 p The maximum  fine per offence is £5000 and if more than one bat is involved, £5000 per bat  (Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 Section 21). The  a href="http:  www.jncc.gov.uk page-1378" target="_blank" rel="nofollow" Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000  (CROW)   a amendment contains a provision for a custodial sentence of up to 6  months instead of, or in addition to, a fine. Along with a lengthy development  delay until appropriate mitigation has been agreed and completed.  p 
 p   The Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006  (NERC) also lists bats as a  species of principle importance under Section 41 and Section 40 requires every  public body in the exercising of its functions to ‘have regard, so far as is  consistent with the proper exercise of those functions, to the purpose of  conserving biodiversity’ . In addition, local authority planning departments should  also meet the requirements of  em chapter 11: Conserving and enhancing the  natural environment  em , of the Nation Planning Policy Framework; which requires planners to not only protect biodiversity, but where  possible to enhance it.  p 
 p   Any  development that impacts upon bats requires survey work. Examples of  development impacts include works on linear features such as woodland edges,  hedgerows and canals nearby which bats may use for foraging. Felling old trees  with crevices where bats can be found roosting, or demolishing renovating  buildings with suitable roosting features.  p 
 p   Bats are  subject to strict legislation however some bat surveys do not require a  licence; an experienced SES ecologist may carry out a dawn, dusk and activity  survey without a licence.  p 
 p   However due  to this strict legislation any work that requires ‘disturbance’ requires an  appropriate Natural England licence to be carried by the bat worker. SES has  experienced ecologists with appropriate licences to meet the needs of your  project.  p 
 p   SES has  ecologists that can provide the following essential bat surveys:  p 
 p   – Initial  habitat assessment, an assessment of the potential of a site to support  roosting, commuting and foraging bats. br 
  – Building  or bridge survey, SES licenced ecologists investigate buildings and bridges for  bats or signs of bat use. br 
  – Tree  surveys, SES qualified tree climbers investigate trees for bats or signs of bat  use. br 
  –  Underground site survey – ecologists with confined spaces training investigate  underground sites for bats or signs of bat use. br 
  – Dawn and  dusk survey, SES ecologists watch for bats leaving and returning to their  roosts respectively, allowing for the identification of roost sites. This  provides confirmation of species identification, population estimates, roost  status and access points. br 
  – Bat  activity survey, SES ecologists listen for bats commuting and foraging using  bat detectors and recorders to enable analysis of bat echolocation calls, which  are unique for each species.  p 
 p   Aerial  Inspection for Bats – Bats often use cracks and holes in trees to roost and  traditionally bat surveyors will only inspect trees from ground level using  binoculars. In some cases this is adequate. Often holes which may look suitable  for use by bats when viewed from the ground are not deep enough to be used when  viewed up close.  p 
 p   Climbing  the trees to get a closer view of any potentially suitable roosting features  can enable the surveyor to discount features which may have seemed suitable  from the ground, or to confirm the presence of bats so constraints are  understood more quickly. An aerial inspection is an extremely effective and  robust way of determining the presence or likely absence of bats, and is often  much more effective than ground inspections and emergence surveys.  p 
 p   This means unnecessary survey  can be avoided with a close aerial inspection as a single inspection can avoid  2-3 evening emergence surveys and can be undertaken throughout the year.  p 
 p   After the completion of a bat survey an SES ecologist can assess the  requirements for mitigation. An SES ecologist must hold a Natural England bat  licence if a proposed development has any impact upon bats or their roosts and  therefore a European Protected Species licence is required. Licence  applications usually take Natural England around 30 days to process and  adequate survey data therefore pre-planning is necessary to avoid any costly delays,  which can run in to years without the proper planning.  p 
 p   SES ecologists have years of experience designing and implementing bat  mitigation strategies in order to minimise the impact upon bat species and  development respectively. Mitigation strategies vary but most successful  examples are focused around how the developer can minimise harm towards bats by  timing construction to avoid sensitive times such as May to late August when  bats are breeding or from November to April during hibernation; as disturbance  during this period can damage survival rates.  p 
 p   A constant in bat mitigation is the provision of bat roosting areas and   or commuting and foraging grounds. This may range from the installation of bat  boxes to the construction of a purpose built bat attic; commuting and foraging  grounds can be satisfied with retention of specific vegetation and or a  replanting schemes.  p 
 p class="title-text" Professional multi disciplinary service providing high quality cost effective  span class="green-text" Ecological Consultancy.  span   p 
 p  a class="main-but" href=" contact" CONTACT US  a   p 
 p class="side-feature-text side-feature-text-far" We have become renowned by our clients for our pragmatic, solution based approach to consultancy.  p 
 p class="main-feature-but"  a href=" ecology" FIND OUT MORE »  a   p 
 p class="side-feature-text side-feature-text-further" Our in-house arboriculture team offer a complete portfolio of services including BS 5837(2012) tree surveys for planning purposes.  p 
 p class="main-feature-but"  a href=" arboriculture" FIND OUT MORE »  a   p 
 p class="side-feature-text" We operate independently supporting our growing portfolio of rail infrastructure clients.  p 
 p class="main-feature-but"  a href=" rail" FIND OUT MORE »  a   p 
 p  span itemprop="streetAddress" Sudbury Stables br Sudbury Road  span  br  span itemprop="addressLocality" Downham br Essex  span  br  span itemprop="postalCode" CM11 1LB  span   p 
 p class="no-padding-btm"  strong Tel:  strong   span itemprop="tel" 01268 711021  span   p 
 p © Copyright 2019 Southern Ecological Solutions. All Rights Reserved.  a href="http:  www.paspective.co.uk " rel="nofollow" target="_blank" Web design by paspective  a .  p 
