 p These blood-sucking little mammals are famous purely for their dietary habits. Unlike many creatures that have inaccurate names or over exaggerated behavior, these bats  em do   em drink blood! They do not, however, commonly drink human blood. In fact, the first record of a vampire bat feeding on a human did not occur until 2017! Read on to learn about the  em vampire bat  em .  p 
 p Vampire bats look like any other bat species for the most part. They are small, brown, and have pointed ears and noses. Their front teeth are sharp and specially shaped to slice skin so blood can flow. Like all bat species, their wings are actually modified fingers. The membranes between the finger bones make up the wing.  p 
 p As with any creature that comes along with folklore and legends, vampire bats bring lots of intrigue. Sadly, this also brings fear, when in reality these bats are highly specialized creatures that pose no threat to humans. These mammals are actually incredibly specialized and quite intriguing.  p 
 p Like many bats, they prefer to hide in dark, secluded locations during the day. Staying safe is easiest in areas that are nearly pitch black, and seldom visited. If their hiding place becomes to loud or busy they will move the colony to a new location.  p 
 p Their favorite habitats are caves, tree hollows, buildings, and old wells. They are most commonly found in tropical and subtropical habitats, but can range from arid environments to humid climates.  p 
 p All three species of vampire bats are native to Central and South America. Common vampire bats can be found from mid-southern Mexico to southeast South America. The hairy-legged species has a more restricted range.  p 
 p They are found in southeastern Mexico, parts of Central America, northwest South America, and eastern South America. The white-winged species is almost as widespread as the common vampire bat, but is not found in western Mexico, or west of the Andes Mountains.  p 
 p These bats feed exclusively on animal blood, this is called  em hematophagy  em . Vampire bats are the only mammals that eat only blood. Each species has slightly different prey preferences. The common species feeds only on mammals, the other two will also feed on birds. They use thermoreceptors on their noses to locate blood vessels closest to the surface of the skin. Specialized teeth create a small incision, and anticoagulant saliva keeps the blood flowing.  p 
 p Humans and vampire bats rarely interact directly. When they do interact, it is usually negative because they have such a negative connotation in human legend. Killing or destruction of colonies is not uncommon. This is, however, true of most bat species. It is quite rare for rabies to spread from these bats to humans or livestock, but it does occasionally occur.  p 
 p No bat species have been domesticated.  p 
 p In most places it is illegal to own a vampire bat as a pet. They have a very specialized diet, and it would be relatively uncomfortable having to provide frequent blood for your pet.  p 
 p In zoos, these bats enjoy a large enclosure for nighttime flights, and lots of hiding places for daytime snoozing. Most institutions will keep nocturnal bat species in a darker habitat to give them optimum comfort. They are fed blood, and the source varies by location, rat, rabbit, cattle, chicken, etc. are all common.  p 
 p Like most species, these bats are nocturnal. They remain hidden in large colonies during the day, and search for food at night. Colonies are typically made up of females, their young, and a few males.  p 
 p In lower temperatures more strange males are allowed into the colony, which suggests that they maintain warmth by congregating in large groups. Individuals will also share blood with other bats. This behavior ensures that when the “donor” bat is hungry, the other bat is more likely to share with them (you owe me one).  p 
 p After breeding, female vampire bats have a gestation period of approximately seven months. She will give birth to one baby, called a “pup.” The pups are left at the colony roost at night while the mother hunts, and she will find the baby by its call when she returns. When the pup is six months old it will begin to leave the roost on hunts, and at nine months it is fully weaned. Females will remain in the same colony, unless their mother dies or moves.  p 
 p class="comment-form-cookies-consent"  input id="wp-comment-cookies-consent" name="wp-comment-cookies-consent" type="checkbox" value="yes"  label for="wp-comment-cookies-consent" Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  label   p 
 p class="form-submit"  input name="submit" type="submit" id="submit" class="submit" value="Post Comment"   input type="hidden" name="comment_post_ID" value="2984" id="comment_post_ID" 
 input type="hidden" name="comment_parent" id="comment_parent" value="0" 
  p 
 p class="akismet_comment_form_privacy_notice" This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.  a href="  akismet.com privacy " target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener" Learn how your comment data is processed  a .  p 
 p  a href="  www.facebook.com AnimalsDotNet " Animals Network  a   p 
 p  strong Scientific Classification  strong   p 
 p Mammalia  p 
 p  strong Scientific Name  strong   p 
 p  em Desmondus rotundus   em (common vampire bat)  p 
 p  em Diphylla ecaudata   em (hairy-legged vampire bat)  p 
 p  em Diaemus youngi  em  (white-winged vampire bat)  p 
 p  strong Size  strong   p 
 p 7 in. wingspan  p 
 p  strong Weight  strong   p 
 p 1.2 oz.  p 
 p  strong Special Physical Traits  strong   p 
 p Specialized front teeth  p 
 p  strong Life Span  strong   p 
 p 9 yrs.  p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong   p 
 p Tropical and subtropical environments  p 
 p  strong Diet  strong   p 
 p Hematophagious (blood drinker)  p 
 p  strong Social Lifestyle  strong   p 
 p Colonies  p 
 p  strong Favorite Food Source  strong   p 
 p Blood  p 
 p  strong Predators  strong   p 
 p Birds of prey, snakes, etc.  p 
 p  strong Location  strong   p 
 p Central and South America  p 
 p  strong Conservation Status  strong   p 
 p Least Concern  p 
 p  script async src="  pagead2.googlesyndication.com pagead js adsbygoogle.js"   script  br 
 br 
 ins class="adsbygoogle" style="display:block" data-ad-client="ca-pub-3251641771602819" data-ad-slot="1792905505" data-ad-format="auto" data-full-width-responsive="true"   ins  br 
 script (adsbygoogle=window.adsbygoogle||[]).push({});  script   p 
