 p Human cultures throughout the world and throughout history have been 
		    fascinated by these mysterious animals of the night sky. Symbols and figures 
		    of bats can be found as far back as the Mayan empire and through to present 
		    day tales such as ‘Batman’.   p 
 p For many species of bat little is known.  strong Scientists use a variety 
		    of methods to attempt to learn about these animals including affixing 
		    small radio transmitters to learn about their movement  strong . Because 
		    of the large distances bats can travel though, and the difficulty of tracking 
		    bats in the wild, very little is known of bat movement and behavior. Populations 
		    of bats that are known to roost in large colonies can be counted and their 
		    populations monitored for growth or decline.  strong Smaller bats that 
		      roost individually can be very difficult to find and to study though, 
		      and several species of bats are too small to affix transmitters to.  strong  For these reasons it is often difficult to understand the threats to bat 
		    populations or the best way to protect them.   p 
 p As with many species, loss of habitat and human encroachment pose the 
		    greatest threat to many bats. For bats that roost in trees, destruction 
		    of forested habitat is a serious concern. Bats which roost in large colonies 
		    can be subject to disturbance by humans. A disturbance to a bat colony 
		    can jeapordize the survival of a significant portion of the population. 
		    For species that hibernate in colonies  strong a disturbance during hibernation 
		      can cause the colony to awaken, costing them important stores of energy 
		      and significantly reducing their chances of surviving through the season.  strong  Lastly, in some countries especially those with larger species of fruit 
		    bats that provide a more significant meal, bats are considered a special 
		    source of food. In some regions bats were an important traditional source 
		    of food and reserved for special occasions, however, with increasing human 
		    populations and reduced sources of protein in regions where wild species 
		    and fisheries have been over-exploited, bats are consumed in greater numbers 
		    and their populations are under threat.   p 
 p Most bat species generally pose little threat to humans. The greatest 
		    legitimate concern regarding human health and bats is their ability to 
		    transmit diseases. As mammals, they can transmit diseases such as rabies 
		    through their bite. For this reason,  strong handling bats should be avoided 
		      or if necessary, done with heavy gloves.  strong    p 
 p  strong Vampire bats are a much feared and misunderstood group of bats  strong . 
		    Three species of sanguivorous, or blood-drinking bats, occur in Latin 
		    America. These bats generally feed on cattle and domestic animals such 
		    as pigs. In many cases, people who rely upon the welfare of their livestock 
		    for their livelihood have found that these bats can represent a significant 
		    economic problem. Several misguided attempts to destroy vampire bats have 
		    caused the near extermination of several non-sanguivorous bat species. 
		    In attempts to destroy vampire bats, colonies of mis-identified bats were 
		    eliminated, threatening the ecology of the region and doing little to 
		    solve the problem of vampire bats.  strong Today, a special poison can 
		      be ‘painted’ on the neck and other regions of cattle to target 
		      the specific individuals of the species that cause livestock damage.  strong  Bats that prey upon the cattle ingest the poison leaving other species 
		    of bats unaffected.  p 
 p Fruit bats in regions where fruit crops, such as figs, are a large economic 
		    crop have also found themselves the target of mis-educated eradication 
		    schemes. In regions where farmers and fruit bats both depend upon the 
		    same species for survival, farmers have often perceived these bats to 
		    pose a threat to their harvest. However, strong  closer study shows that 
		      fruit bats generally target ripe fruits while farmers often harvest under-ripe 
		      fruits to prevent over-ripening during shipping or before sale  strong . 
		    By leaving a small percentage of cultivated fruits to ripen, farmers can 
		    provide a source of food for fruit bats and reduce the number of under-ripe 
		    fruits eaten by bats.   p 
 p A third common source of conflict between bats and humans occurs in urban 
		    or settled areas. Bats can be a nuisance when they choose human settlements 
		    for roosts, colonies of bats can leave large deposits of droppings or 
		    guano, creating undesirable smells and unsettling noise in the evenings. 
		    However, such nuisances can be easily addressed without destroying the 
		    bats themselves.  strong Installing fixtures or conducting repairs can 
		      eliminate access to areas where bat roosts are not welcome and establishing 
		      alternative roosts for bats such as bat houses can provide roosting places 
		      for bats that are not troublesome to human occupants  strong . Overall, 
		    as people develop a better understanding of bats’ ecological role 
		    as pollinators, seed-dispersers and insect-control they will come to see 
		    that the nuisance posed by bats are considerably less than the important 
		    ecological benefits they provide.  p 
 p Article by  strong Vanessa Parker-Geisman  strong   p 
 p  strong Additional info by Andrew Bley ...  strong   p 
 p Bats all around the world are threatened or endangered, so what’s 
            being done to save them? In many parts of the world there is still great 
            prejudice toward bats. This attitude is so unfortunate not only for bats 
            but for people as well. Bats are great pollinators and eaters of insects 
            that we consider pests, yet their habitats are still being purposely destroyed. 
            Since they roost in such dense numbers  strong (Bracken Cave near San 
              Antonio is home on any given night to over 20 million bats)  strong  it 
            is easy to do a lot of damage with relative ease. After Mexican freetail 
            bats took roost under the renovated Congress Avenue Bridge in Austin, 
            Texas, people began signing petitions to have them exterminated. (Tuttle 
            1995) Didn’t those silly Texans realize that one shouldn’t 
            mess with an animal that is not only harmless but is greatly beneficial? 
            They realize it now. It’s estimated that this particular colony 
            eats more than 27,000 pounds of insects on an average night. Now  strong Austin 
              has dubbed itself the "Bat Capital of America"  strong  and 
            the bats are a popular tourist attraction. In fact, the Texas Department 
            of Transportation now purposely builds bat-friendly bridges. Structural 
            engineer Mark J. Bloschock said that, "We have about six million 
            bats already living in 59 Texas bridges and we’ll be building 15 
            to 20 new bridges a year that together will accommodate a million new 
            bats."   p 
 p Some farmers are now building "bat boxes" to house the animals 
            and thereby cutting down on pesticide use. People like Bat Conservation 
            International founder Berlin D. Tuttle work tirelessly to promote bat 
            education and appreciation.   p 
