 p 
  p 
 p 360-902-2515 br 
   a href="mailto:wildthing@dfw.wa.gov" wildthing@dfw.wa.gov  a   p 
 p    p 
 p span class="small_text" Tree swallow peering from a nest cavity excavated by a woodpecker. i   br 
                                    Photo Credit: Joy Spurr  i   p 
 p span class="small_text" The head of a young pileated woodpecker  emerging from its nest cavity.   p 
 p class="page_header" Snags - The Wildlife Tree  p 
 p class="large_header"  span class="large_header" The Importance of Snags in Your Neighborhood  span   p 
 p class="medium_header"  Dead Wood  Brings New Life  p 
 p Hard to  believe, but trees can actually provide more habitats for wildlife dead than  when they are alive. Standing dead and dying trees, called “snags” or “wildlife  trees,” are important for wildlife in both natural and landscaped settings,  occurring as a result of disease, lightning, fire, animal damage, too much  shade, drought, root competition, as well as old age.   p 
 p Birds,  small mammals, and other wildlife use snags for nests, nurseries, storage  areas, foraging, roosting, and perching.  Live trees with snag-like features, such as hollow trunks, excavated  cavities, and dead branches can provide similar wildlife value. Snags occurring  along streams and shorelines eventually may fall into the water, adding  important woody debris to aquatic habitat. Dead branches are often used as  perches; snags that lack limbs are often more decayed and, may have more and  larger cavities for shelter and nesting. Snags enhance local natural areas by  attracting wildlife species that may not otherwise be found there.  p 
 p All  trees of all sizes are potential snags. Unfortunately,  many wildlife trees are cut down without much thought to their wildlife value or  of the potential management options that can safely prolong the existence of  the tree. Wildlife trees offer a  one-stop, natural habitat feature. In  short, snags “live on” as excellent wildlife trees for all to enjoy!   p 
 p class="small_text" Raccoon family in tree den. A note about  raccoons – raccoons can become habituated to people; they are aggressive and  sometimes dangerous and carry the roundworm  i Baylisascaris procyonis  i  that can infect humans and pets. Do NOT leave pet food and garbage out and  b never  b  feed raccoons.  p 
 p  span class="small_text" Wood duck ducklings plunging from their nest cavity in a tree. This is normal behavior for wood ducks when  leaving the nest cavity which can be anywhere between 6 to 15 feet above ground  and almost always above water into which they fall. Photo  i Credit: Mike Lentz Images  i   span   p 
 p class="small_text" Pileated woodpeckers foraging on an old  dead snag pulling off the bark to get to the insects underneath. Note the thick  bare branch at the top of the tree perfect for bald eagles or other large  birds. br 
                                       i Photo Credit: Patricia Thompson  i   p 
 p  span class="small_text" Red squirrel poking out of a den tree savoring a nut dropped by a passerby. Central Park, New York City.
Photo Credit:  a href="http:  urbanhawks.blogs.com urban_hawks 2006 01 locust_grove.html" Bruce Yolton  a   span   p 
 p class="medium_header" Wildlife That Use Snags
                                p 
 p West of  the Cascade Mts 39 species of birds and 14 species of mammals depend on tree  cavities for their survival. East of the Cascades 39 bird species and 23 mammal  species depend on these snags (Pederson, USDA Forest Service). In total, more  than 100 species of birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians need snags for  nesting, roosting, shelter, denning, and feeding (Bottorff, WSU, Snohomish Co. Ext i )  i ; nearly 45 species alone forage for food in them. Hollow snags  and large knot-holes are used by many species of mammals such as squirrels,  marten, porcupine, and raccoons.  p 
 p In winter when snow covers the  ground, northern flickers and other common backyard wildlife depend heavily on  insects and other foods found in snags. Brown creepers, bats, and other small  animals will roost behind loose bark and bark slits for winter warmth and  shelter. Hollow snags are very valuable in winter as they are used by many  species such as squirrels, raccoons, owls, and bear for denning and  roosting.   p 
 p Large  snags more than 12 inches in diameter and 15 feet tall offer ideal hunting  perches for hawks, eagles, and owls.  They function as resting perches for swallows, band-tailed pigeons,  mourning doves and other birds; food storage areas for mice, squirrels,  woodpeckers, and jays; and song perches for tanagers and flycatchers. Woodpeckers use large dead tree trunks as a  way to announce their presence during courtship, hammering their bills against  the tree’s resonating surface. Small snags  may be used as song posts by bluebirds, hummingbirds, and other songbirds to  attract mates and proclaim nesting territories.  This high use of snags by a myriad of species underscores the importance  of preserving snags and including them in your landscape.  p 
 p                               
                                p 
 p class="small_header"  b Dead  Tree Wildlife Condo  b   p 
 p   span class="feature_text" You can  see where wildlife finds food and shelter if you look carefully at a snag:  span   p 
 p class="medium_header" Trees  that make the best snags.  p 
 p align="center"  a href="graphics fir_snags.jpg"  img src="graphics t_fir_snags.jpg" alt="Red squirrel poking out of a den tree." width="150" height="141" vspace="2" border="0"  span class="tiny_text"  br 
                                        Click photo to enlarge  span   a   p 
 p  span class="small_text"  b Hard and Soft Snags.  b  The snag with the  abundant nest cavities and foraging evidence is a soft snag that has been used  for many years. This photo was taken four years after the flat-top  trees were created”   from live  Douglas fir; they have barely started the decay process yet woodpeckers are  beginning to work them. br 
                                             i Photo Credit: Patricia Thompson  i   span   p 
 p class="feature_text" A snag habitat begins to form when a large tree dies and  forms a "Hard Snag.” As this hard snag decays it gradually becomes a  "Soft Snag.” A partially or recently dead tree is a  b hard snag  b . Hard snags tend to have their bark intact  while the heartwood (the non-living inner core) and sapwood (the younger,  softer, growing wood between the bark and heartwood) are still firm. These  kinds of snags are good for cavity excavating birds. A  b soft snag  b  has considerable decay in  its heart and sapwood. Fungi infiltrate the heartwood and the tree becomes soft  or hollow in the center. A soft snag  rarely has limbs, and its top may be missing.  Over the years, a soft snag gets shorter as weather and animal activity  weakens it. Eventually it falls over and  continues to provide important food and shelter on the ground.  p 
 p  b Tree Size.  b   Small trees rot rapidly, creating wildlife habitat. Black-capped chickadees nest in snags as small as six feet tall and four  inches in diameter. The large conifers  such as cedar, fir, larch, and pine, tend to rot more slowly than do deciduous  trees such as alder, birch, and cherry.  However, large deciduous trees such as cottonwoods, big-leaf maples, and  oaks can last many years as snags.  Moreover, while alive, they tend to develop cavities in their bulky and dead branches and trunks.  p 
 p  b Decay.  b   The best snags for cavity-nesters are those with hard sapwood (between  bark) and decayed heartwood (inner core) making them hard on the  outside and soft in the middle. The hard sapwood provides protection from  predators and insulation against weather, while the softened heartwood allows  easy excavation deep into the snag. Many  birds avoid very soft snags for nesting because extremely soft wood can be wet or crumbly.  p 
 p Strong primary  excavators, such as the pileated woodpecker and northern flicker, occasionally  select living trees with decayed heartwood because they can penetrate through  the sound layer of sapwood and excavate the nest cavity in the soft  heartwood. Generally, the sapwood  remains fairly intact and forms a shell surrounding the decaying heartwood. The excavated interior may remain useable for  many years by many species.    p 
 p class="small_text" Northern flicker in the process of  excavating its nest cavity. Note the wood chips flying.  p 
 p  b The Woodpecker -  Cavity Creator  b   p 
 p class="feature_text" Woodpeckers  such as the northern flicker create new cavities in snags and are  thus referred to as “primary cavity nesters.”  They have thick-walled skulls supported by powerful neck muscles, and a  beveled, chisel-like bill. A woodpecker’s  strong, grasping feet with sharp, curved nails form a triangular base for support  in the vertical position along with specially adapted tail feathers. The woodpecker’s barb-tipped tongue and  sticky saliva help it get insects from deep crevices. Unlike other cavity-nesting birds,  woodpeckers rarely use nest boxes because they are biologically conditioned to  dig their own cavities: the physical motions of cavity excavation stimulate reproduction.  p 
 p class="feature_text"  Woodpeckers excavate several holes each year and rarely nest in the  same one in consecutive years, thus creating many cavities for secondary cavity  nesters such as bluebirds, tree and violet-green swallows, chickadees, nuthatches,  house wrens, wood ducks, squirrels, and owls who cannot excavate cavities  themselves. Secondary cavity nesting wildlife are highly dependent upon the  availability of these abandoned nest cavities.  p 
 p class="medium_header" Snags in Your Landscape  p 
 p  Try to  incorporate one or more snags into your landscape keeping old and damaged trees  when possible. Retain trees and tall shrubs near the planned snag  to protect it from wind and provide a healthier environment for wildlife. In  urban areas, tall snags are best located away from high activity areas, where  they won’t pose a hazard if they fall.  Trees that lean away or are downhill from structures and other areas of human  activity present little or no risk.   p 
 p class="small_header"  Ways to  tell a future snag:   p 
 p class="small_text" Cedar snag with top burned out 
        by  homeowner adds an interesting 
        and striking 
        feature 
        to this 
        backyard landscape. br 
         i Photo Credit: Russell Link  i   p 
 p class="small_text"  Photo Credit: Russell Link  p 
 p Also,  note any trees you may want to make into a snag including:  p 
 p Because individual  snags may have only one wildlife habitat feature (perch, cavity, etc.),  retaining and promoting small clumps of snags throughout a larger property is  more likely to provide all of these features. Small dead ornamental and fruit trees can be  left in the landscape where they are not a safety hazard because they will be  used as perches for preening, resting, foraging, and singing.  p 
 p class="medium_header" Creating Snags from Live  Trees   p 
 p class="small_text" A professional arborist creates an alder  tree snag giving it a natural-looking jagged top. You must hire a professional to create these  tall snags. It is unwise to attempt this yourself. br 
         i Photo Credit: Russell Link  i   p 
 p Any snag  you provide for wildlife will likely be used. You can even create one from a  live tree. Branches or trunk you remove  can be added to a brush shelter. Remember, a tree can provide habitat even when  just part of it dies. For instance, if a  large conifer has a fork in it, you can girdle one of the forks creating an  excellent perch. If the trunk of this  tree is large enough in diameter, a future cavity may develop as the perch limb  dies. In addition, if the tree is not  dying after the side branches and top have been removed, some individual side  branches can be girdled to create perches and help the tree decline.   p 
 p There  are several methods for creating snags (See Fig. 1):   p 
 p Always  hire an expert tree service to remove branches and tops of large trees. Make sure that whoever does the work is  licensed, bonded, and insured, and understands your intention to make a  wildlife tree. Many certified arborists  with the International Society of Arboriculture specialize in wildlife tree  creation and maintenance. Check with  your local chapter.  p 
 p  b Removing the top third of the tree  and half the remaining side branches.  b  This method ensures that the tree begins the preferred inside-out decay process,  premium sites for cavity-nesting birds.  Leave some shortened branches at the top for perches and make the snag  look natural by creating a jagged top (Fig. 1). A jagged top also provides an avenue for fungi  infection and other rot-causing organisms.  Water and bird feces will collect and speed decay. Sow bugs, earwigs, and other invertebrates  will find their way in and assist in the decay process.   p 
 p  b Leaving the top intact and remove  about 3 4 of the tree’s side-branches.   b Douglas fir, hemlock, and pine respond well to this  technique. Western red cedar is a tough  conifer to kill in this way, but it makes an excellent snag because it is  extremely wind-resistant and long-lasting. Keep branch ends jagged and more  susceptible to microorganisms and fungi, and more natural looking.  p 
 p class="small_text"  b Figure 1  b . Ways to create a snag from a live tree. A  jagged top and shortened branches at the top give the snag a more natural look  and speed the process of decay. i  (Drawing by Jenifer Rees)  i   p 
 p  b Leave the top and sides as they are and girdling the  trunk.   b Least  preferred method. Girdling creates a dead but intact top, providing a taller  snag, but leaves it more susceptible to breaking at the wound site. Girdling  tends to cause a tree to rot from the outside in, instead of the preferred  inside-out. As a result, by the time the  rot has progressed far enough for woodpeckers to excavate a cavity, the tree  has become fragile and may easily fall in a windstorm. Furthermore, a cavity in a girdled tree may  not be safe because the hole is likely to be shallow, which exposes young to  weather and predators.
  p 
 p To  girdle a tree, remove a four-inch belt of inner and outer bark around the trunk  which stops the movement of water and nutrients. If girdling is done at breast height and the  tree falls, this leaves very little remaining snag habitat. Therefore, try to make the girdling cut as  high up as possible. Big-leaf maple,  aspen, and poplar may send up sprouts, which can be removed or left to grow  around the tree as temporary cover. Some  tree species, alder for example, are difficult to kill even when properly  girdled. A tree girdled in winter may not show signs of decline until well into  spring, after it has used its stored energy.   p 
 p class="medium_header" Roosting Slits   p 
 p class="small_text" Brown creeper on a snag with visible  roosting slits.  p 
 p Roosting  slits for bats and some songbirds, including brown creepers, may be added to  created snags that are tall enough and wide enough in diameter to accommodate  the cuts. The slits should be at least  eight inches deep, one or more inches wide, and angled sharply upward. Bats need to fly up into the slits so the  slits should be located in an area free of branches. The higher up the snag they are, the more  likely these roosting slits will be used. Some sun exposure warms these roosts  and makes them more attractive in winter.  p 
 p class="medium_header" Relocating Snags  p 
 p  It is possible  to install a small snag on your property obtained from somewhere else, such as  those salvaged from a construction or logging site. Be sure to get permission from the landowner.  Snag relocation is difficult, dangerous and usually requires professional help  and special equipment. A dead tree is  generally much heavier and more fragile than it looks weighing several hundred or  even thousands of pounds. Remember, if you double the diameter of a cylinder,  you quadruple the weight. An old snag,  too rotten to support its own weight, is best used as a log.  p 
 p Relocate  the snag to a place where it will remain upright and secure. If you are moving it within your property,  try to install it as close as possible to its original location minimizing  disturbance to wildlife that have been using it. Locate the snag in a wind-protected area near  live trees and shrubs.   p 
 p   span class="medium_header" " b Planting" a large snag.  b   span    p 
 p class="small_header"  b Creating a  Cavity in a Live Tree   b   p 
 p class="feature_text"  b Gradual Technique  b   p 
 p class="feature_text"  b A  b . Drill       a 1” diameter hole at a ten-degree angle downwards into the heartwood of       the tree anywhere water might collect, such as below a crotch of a branch, starting the cavity making process  p 
 p class="feature_text"  b B.  b  Remove a large (4” or larger) limb and leave       the jagged, broken stub allowing for invasion by bacteria, fungi, and       insects. Most diseases attack the       dead heartwood and the outer layer continues its growth around the       rotten core; the rest of the tree can continue to grow for many years.  p 
 p class="feature_text"  b Rapid Technique  b   p 
 p class="feature_text"  b C.  b  Cut a       cavity in the trunk using a small chain saw, drill, or chisel. Next, cover the cutout with a piece of       wood or sheet metal with the species-appropriate size entry hole drilled       into it. Whether this kills a tree       depends on the size of the cavity in relation to the size of the tree.  p 
 p class="feature_text"    p 
 p Before  setting the snag, cut its base flat so the snag will  stand straight. Then do any of the following:  p 
 p class="medium_header" Hazard Tree and Snag Management  p 
 p  If not  managed properly, snags can pose a risk to people and structures. If a dead or  dying tree threatens something that can be moved, such as a swing set or patio  furniture, consider moving those items before cutting the tree down. An  alternative to eliminating the entire tree is to remove only the dangerous  section(s). Consulting with a certified arborist with experience in wildlife snags  is recommended. These professionals can  determine what part of a tree is a hazard and provide management options to  reduce or eliminate any risk. Remaining  parts can be removed over time. Often,  once the unsafe limbs or portions of the trunk have been removed, the tree is  safe.   p 
 p  When a tree  must be cut down, maximize its habitat value by placing as much of the debris  as possible near the area where the tree was removed. In hot, dry areas, move the material into the  shade of nearby trees or large shrubs.  Putting branches in contact with the ground will cause them to rot  faster. Place a nest box on your site as replacement for cavities lost through  tree or limb removal.  p 
 p class="medium_header"  b References   b   p 
 p Bull, E.L., C.G. Parks,  T. R. Torgersen. 1998.  i Trees and Logs Important to Wildlife in the Interior  Columbia River Basin.  i  Diane Pub. 55 pgs.  p 
 p Ferguson, H.L.,  Robinette, K., and K. Stenberg. 2001.  i Wildlife of Urban Habitats – Urban Parks,  Golf Courses, Cemeteries, and Open Space.  i  Pp. 334-335 in: Johnson, D.H. and  T.A. O’Neil, managing directors, Wildlife-Habitat Relationships in Oregon and  Washington. Oregon State University Press.  p 
 p Link, R.E. 1999.   i Landscaping for Wildlife in the Pacific Northwest.  i  Washington Department of  Fish and Wildlife, University of Washington Press. 320 pp.  p 
 p Mackenzie, Martin, T.T. Dunlap, B.J. Spears, and J.G O’Brien. 2003. Ch  5.  i Correction of Hazardous Defects in Trees.  i  See Pp 143-159.  i In Urban Tree Risk  Management: A Community Guide to Program Design and Implementation.  i  J.D  Pokorny, Ed. USDA Forest Service, Northeastern Section. St. Paul MN. See:  a href="http:  www.na.fs.fed.us urban index.shtm" http:  www.na.fs.fed.us urban index.shtm  a  i .  i   p 
 p class="medium_header" Web Sites and Documents  p 
 p Bottorff, J.  i Snags,  coarse woody debris, and wildlife  i . Snohomish Co. Extension Service, Washington  State University.  i snohomish.wsu.edu forestry documents SNAGS.pdf  i  Fletcher Wildlife Gardens. Wildlife Trees.  a href="http:  www.ofnc.ca fletcher howto htsnags.php" http:  www.ofnc.ca fletcher howto htsnags.php  a .  p 
 p Lewis, J.C. and J.M.  Azerrad. 2003.  i Priority Species Management Recommendations: Pileated  Woodpecker; Black-backed woodpecker; Lewis’ woodpecker; Flammulated owl; Cavity  nesting ducks.  i  Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife.  a href="http:  wdfw.wa.gov hab phs vol4 birdrecs.htm" http:  wdfw.wa.gov hab phs vol4 birdrecs.htm  a .  p 
 p Maser, Chris, Andrew  Claridge, and James M. Trappe. 2007.  i Trees, Truffles, and Beasts: How Forests  Function  i . Rutgers University Press.  a href="http:  rutgerspress.rutgers.edu acatalog trees_truffles_beasts.html" http:  rutgerspress.rutgers.edu acatalog trees_truffles_beasts.html  a   p 
 p National Wildlife  Federation.  i Attracting Wildlife with Dead Trees.  i   a href="http:  www.nwf.org Get-Outside Outdoor-Activities Garden-for-Wildlife Gardening-Tips Attracting-Wildlife-With-Dead-Trees.aspx" http:  www.nwf.org Get-Outside Outdoor-Activities Garden-for-Wildlife Gardening-Tips Attracting-Wildlife-With-Dead-Trees.aspx  a .  p 
 p Pederson, Richard J.  1991.  i Managing Small Woodlands for Cavity Nesting Birds.  i  USDA Forest Service,  Pacific NW Region. 6 pages.  a href="http:  www.woodlandfishandwildlife.org " http:  www.woodlandfishandwildlife.org   a .  p 
 p Shay, Ron. 1997, revised  2007.  i Cavity Nesting Ducks  i . U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. 8 pages.  a href="http:  www.woodlandfishandwildlife.org publications.htm" http:  www.woodlandfishandwildlife.org publications.htm  a  a href="http:  www.woodlandfishandwildlife.org pubs wfw_cavity_ducks.pdf"   a .  p 
 p  i Snags, Cavity Trees,  and Downed Logs.  i  Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service.  a href="http:  pods.dasnr.okstate.edu docushare dsweb Get Document-5202 Snags%20L-270.pdf" http:  pods.dasnr.okstate.edu docushare dsweb Get Document-5202 Snags%20L-270.pdf  a .   p 
 p  US Forest Service. 1988.   i From the Forest to the Sea: The Story of Fallen Trees.  i  PNWGTR229, Pacific  Northwest Research Station, US Dept. of Agriculture, Portland, OR.  a href="http:  www.fs.fed.us pnw pubs gtr229" http:  www.fs.fed.us pnw pubs gtr229  a .  p 
 p Washington Department of  Fish and Wildlife.  i Backyard Wildlife Sanctuary Program  i .  a href="http:  wdfw.wa.gov wlm backyard " http:  wdfw.wa.gov wlm backyard   a .  br 
    Note – in particular, see the link for “Nest  Boxes for Birds” section for cavity diameter and related habitat specifics.  p 
 p class="medium_header" Organizations  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.pnwisa.org " International Society of  Arboriculture, Pacific Northwest Chapter  a . (503) 874-8263.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.plantamnesty.org home index.aspx" Plant Amnesty  a . (206)  783-9813. br 
    p 
 p  a href=" index.html"  strong Home  strong   a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" about " About WDFW  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" conservation " Conservation  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" fishing " Fishing  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" hunting " Hunting  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" enforcement " Enforcement  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" viewing " Wildlife Viewing  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" licensing " Licensing &amp; Permits  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" living " Living with Wildlife  a   strong   p 
 p class="small_text" ©
          
          2019
           a href="http:  wdfw.wa.gov "  u Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife  u   a  br 
          E-mail:  a href="mailto:webmaster@dfw.wa.gov"  u webmaster@dfw.wa.gov  u   a  br 
           a href=" privacy "  u Privacy Statement  u   a   p 
 p  a href=" fishing washington " Fish Washington  a   p 
 p  a href=" hunting hunting_access private_lands " Private Lands Hunting Access  a   p 
 p  a href=" lands wildlife_areas " Wildlife Areas  a   p 
 p  a href=" lands water_access " Water Access Sites  a   p 
 p  a href=" licensing vendors " Find a license dealer  a   p 
 p  a href=" weekender " Weekender Report  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  apps.wdfw.wa.gov gohunt " GoHunt  a   span class="tiny_text"  em (mapping)  em   span   p 
 p    p 
 p  a href=" help " Help  a   p 
 p  a href=" about contact " Contact WDFW  a   p 
 p  a href=" news " News  a   p 
 p  a href=" lists " Mailing Lists  a   p 
 p    p 
 p  a href=" rss.html" RSS Feeds  a   p 
 p  a href=" publications " WDFW Publications  a   p 
 p  a href=" mapping " Maps &amp; Data Products  a   p 
 p  a href=" hunting huntered " Hunter Education  a   p 
 p  a href=" enforcement reporting_violations.html" Report a Violation  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.facebook.com WDFWPolice"  img style="border:0" src=" includes graphics footer footer_police_facebook.png" width="22" height="19" alt="Visit WDFW Police on Facebook"  WDFW Police Facebook  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  www.youtube.com thewdfw"  img style="border:0" src=" includes graphics footer footer_youtube.png" width="19" height="19" alt="Watch WDFW on YouTube"  YouTube  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  twitter.com wdfw"  img style="border:0" src=" includes graphics footer footer_twitter.png" width="19" height="19" alt="Follow WDFW on Twitter"  Twitter  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  instagram.com thewdfw "  img style="border:0" src=" includes graphics footer footer_instagram.png" width="19" height="16" alt="See WDFW on Instagram"  Instagram  a   p 
 p  a href=" hunting regulations " Hunting  a   p 
 p    p 
