 p class="t_article-subtitle" Some species could soon lose up to 98 percent of their habitats, according to new research  p 
 p When it comes to bats, location matters as much as echolocation. New research reveals that dozens of Brazil’s unique bat species will soon face a major habitat crunch due to a combination of climate change and deforestation. If the bats don’t have the ability to move to new habitats, some of their ranges could nearly disappear by the year 2050.  p 
 p The study, published recently in the journal  em  a href="http:  www.sciencedirect.com science article pii S2351989415001092" target="_blank" Global Ecology and Conservation  a ,   em examined how climate change will affect bat habitat in Brazil’s  a href="http:  wwf.panda.org what_we_do where_we_work cerrado " target="_blank" Cerrado  a  tropical savanna ecoregion. The Cerrado has been called one of the most biodiversity-rich areas on the planet, and its bats are no exception. At least 118 bat species can be found within the Cerrado—more than 10 percent of all bat species on the planet.  p 
 p The news for these unique species, most of which have very specific habitat requirements, wasn’t good. The researchers, from  a href="http:  www.unb.br " target="_blank" Universidade de Brasilia  a  and other institutions, found that climate change will require Brazil’s bats to move an average of 281 kilometers to new habitats if they are going to survive in a warming world.  p 
 p Unfortunately, that movement won’t be easy. The Cerrado has been heavily deforested over the past several decades to make way for agricultural development such as soybean, coffee and sugarcane plantations. According to the paper only 20 percent of the region’s vegetation remains undisturbed. Lack of appropriate habitat means many of Brazil’s bats will not be able to slowly shift the places in which they live in order to reach their new, optimal habitats by the year 2050.  p 
 p With no ability to disperse, the researchers calculated that 36 bat species will end up losing more than 80 percent of their suitable habitat. Of those, five species will be hit the worst. According to the paper the Thomas’s nectar bat ( em Hsunycteris thomasi  em ), Peter’s disk-winged bat ( em Thyroptera discifera  em ), greater yellow-shouldered bat ( em Sturnira magna  em ), Tilda’s yellow-shouldered bat ( em S. tildae  em ) and great stripe-faced bat ( em Vampyrodes caraccioli  em ) will face habitat reduction of more than 98 percent, enough to make the species unviable in the Cerrado.  p 
 p None of these five species are currently considered endangered. Luckily some of them have wide ranges and exist outside the Cerrado, but this type of habitat loss could easily isolate disparate populations or even threaten the future for entire species.  p 
 p At least a portion of this habitat constriction could be avoided. The researchers have mapped out a series of migration corridors that could allow the bats to move to their new habitats. If the corridors are saved from further deforestation and destruction, the bats could shift their locations more easily. This, they write, could allow most of the bats to adapt to climate change and save the majority of the species from feeling the squeeze.  p 
 p  strong Previously in Extinction Countdown:  strong   p 
 p The views expressed are those of the author(s) and are not necessarily those of Scientific American.   p 
 p class="article-author__desc t_body t_body--article" John R. Platt is the editor of The Revelator. An award-winning environmental journalist, his work has appeared in Scientific American, Audubon, Motherboard, and numerous other magazines and publications. His "Extinction Countdown" column has run continuously since 2004 and has covered news and science related to more than 1,000 endangered species. John lives on the outskirts of Portland, Ore., where he finds himself surrounded by animals and cartoonists.  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 1 hour ago  —  Mariette DiChristina  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 1 hour ago  —  Zeynep Tufekci  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 3 hours ago  —  Louise Lief  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 3 hours ago  —  Lucas Joel  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 14 hours ago  —  Christopher Intagliata  p 
 p class="related-article__meta" 19 hours ago  —  Nutrition Diva Monica Reinagel  p 
 p class="small-hide" Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners.  p 
 p Follow us  p 
 p Scientific american arabic  p 
 p class="footer-copyright" © 2019 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc.  p 
 p class="footer-copyright" All Rights Reserved.  p 
