 p Bats are becoming an item of interest lately. Not only are they flitting forth from winter residency into the spring fling to do what they do best — catch mosquitoes and night-flying insects, but bat boxes are becoming as popular as bird boxes.   p 
 p Amanda Speer and the California State Parks planned a bat-box-building Earth Day event at Loafer Creek Campground April 16, in an effort to promote interest in bats and emphasize their importance. She was inspired by the discovery of bats hiding in the campfire-circle screen box. They were referred to as “little brown bats” because of their color, although most bats are of a brownish hue. One species, Myotis lucifugus, is actually called Little Brown Bat. Bats and certain birds are difficult to identify, and little brown birds are often called “LBJ’s (Little Brown Jobs), so maybe that could apply to bats too.   p 
 p Down by the riverside, a short distance upstream from the Feather River Nature Center, there is a split boulder alongside the Sewim-Bo Trail. The Center calls it “Bat Rock,” because sometimes bats hide in that crevice after their dashes in the dark. Even the old Bathhouse nature center has had a few bats hiding in the crannied ceiling, which is quite appropriate, and we do need a few bat boxes around the premises since natural crevices in trees are scarce. Park maintenance often cut defective hole-y tree limbs fearing a fallout.   p 
 p Batman movies are being revived, too, and I recently saw a flick from “Batman Begins.” Basically the fictional concept preys on people’s fears of “evil in the dark,” and the association of bats in the night, along with a touch of “vampire bats after blood.” Many harmless, in fact, beneficial, animals have thus been portrayed as terrible, including spiders and snakes.   p 
 p I am reminded of a 1965 Mexico expedition made by naturalist John McCarty and two of our teenage volunteers at Oakland’s Rotary Nature Center. They rigged an old truck to collect animals all the way to Costa Rica, and had a permit to catch a Harpy Eagle. They were also lured by the 140 species of bats in Mexico. Catching bats with nets in an alley at night landed them in a Mexican jail … and they didn’t speak Spanish very well. Americans after bats with nets in a dark alley; they must be nuts! Throw away the key! The Embassy got them out.   p 
 p Looking at numbers, there are 24 bat species in California, about 45 in North America, and 1,100 in the world. Seventy percent are insectivorous, 30% frugivores (fruit eaters), and 40% of U.S. bats are endangered, mostly due to loss of habitat and the use of insect-killing pesticides. Let bats do it!   p 
 p Most bat species are in the tropics where insects are available all the time. Any bat in cold climates must hibernate in caves or migrate south. About three species of CA bats migrate and others simply disappear into their choice of hiding places. The vampire bat of South America is the only mammal parasite. Most bats live 20 years or more.   p 
 p Once activated, an insectivorous bat can eat up to 1,000 mosquitoes in an hour, catching them by mouth or tail scoop. I don’t know how that count was made but it’s in the books. Figures are flexible when dealing with bats, just like their sonar-controlled erratic flight pattern.   p 
 p The smallest mammal is a two gram (weight of a dime) Chiroptera species in Thailand — the Bumble Bee Bat, or Kitti’s Hog-nosed. Fossils indicate bats lived 52 million years ago, where evidently small insects were available. Bats are the only mammals that can truly fly.   p 
 p “When you change the way you look at things, the things you look at begin to change.”   p 
 p ?Wayne Dyer   p 
 p 
  p 
 p class="prompt" Sign up for email newsletters  p 
