 p Although historically common and widely distributed in short- and mixed-grass prairies of the Great Plains, swift foxes have experienced significant population declines and are now estimated to occupy less than half of their historic range in the United States. In the face of this enormous decline, a multi-stakeholder, comprehensive approach is required to restore swift fox populations across the Northern Great Plains and beyond. Collaboration among tribal communities, universities, conservation organizations, state and government agencies, and private landowners is essential for the swift fox to make a viable comeback.  p 
 p Where present, swift foxes are indicators an intact grassland ecosystem. Conserving habitat for and populations of swift foxes benefits other wildlife species that share similar habitat, such as prairie dogs, ground squirrels, and grassland birds.  p 
 p No reasonable doubt that the last individual has died  p 
 p Known only to survive in cultivation, in captivity or as a naturalised population  p 
 p Facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Facing a high risk of extinction in the Wild  p 
 p Likely to qualify for a threatened category in the near future  p 
 p Does not qualify for Critically Endangered, Endangered, Vulnerable, or Near Threatened  p 
 p WWF put collars on these foxes to track species population and distribution.  p 
 p Current threats to swift foxes include lack of suitable habitat, predation by coyotes, and vehicle collisions.  p 
 p To ensure the long-term survival and stability of swift fox populations range-wide, WWF works with a diverse group of stakeholders on three priorities:  p 
 p Show your love of the tiger with the WWF BankAmericard Cash Rewards Visa credit card. Bank of America will contribute $100 to WWF for each account opened and activated.  p 
 p Make a symbolic animal adoption to help save some of the world's most endangered animals from extinction and support WWF's conservation efforts.  p 
 p Get the latest conservation news with WWF email.
  p 
 p Already have a WWF account?
  p 
 p class="address" 
 strong World Wildlife Fund  strong  br 
1250 24th Street, N.W. br 
Washington, DC 20037
  p 
 p class="copyright" © 2019 World Wildlife Fund  p 
