 p The Red Fox has a reddish brown coat sprinkled with light-tipped hairs. The chest and underside of the neck are white. Distinguishing marks include black ears and feet and a white-tipped tail.  p 
 p The Red Fox is 24 to 28 inches long, not including the tail, which measures an additional 14-17 inches. Red Foxes average 8-12 pounds in weight, but often appear heavier than this due to their thick coats.  p 
 p Foxes consume a variety of small animals, including rabbits, mice, and birds. Although classified as carnivores (meat-eaters), they will also eat a variety of plant material such as berries and fruits. The fox’s diet changes seasonally depending on what is available. The Red Fox will hunt even if it is no longer hungry, and caches extra food by burying it under leaves or dirt. At Cosley Zoo, the foxes are fed a commercially prepared diet.  p 
 p Red Foxes mate between January and March. The female gives birth between March and April after a 51-day gestation period. The 4 to 6 kits have closed eyes and dark fur when they are born. The female cares for the kits while the male provides them with food. They will remain in the den for about a month and then they will come to the entrance to play and feed. At this point, the parents will bring back live prey, which is given to the kits to teach them how to hunt. The youngsters leave their parents in the fall to fend for themselves.  p 
 p Although the Red Fox occupies many different habitats, it seems to prefer to live in a mixture of forest and open country. The normal territory of the fox ranges 1 to 2 miles from its burrow. The burrow itself is usually the abandoned den of another animal, such as a rabbit or woodchuck. Even though they have lost much of their natural habitat, foxes have adapted remarkably to cohabitation with humans.  p 
 p Red Foxes in captivity can live up to 10 or 12 years, with a maximum of 15. In the wild, their life expectancy is an average of 3-5 years.  p 
 p Although foxes have gained a reputation for killing chickens, this behavior is not as widespread as many believe. Foxes actually do more good than harm for farmers by consuming small mammals and insects that are detrimental to their crops.  p 
 p  span style="font-size: 22px; font-weight: 600;"   a href="http:  cosleyzoo.kindful.com" target="_blank" Donate Online   a   span   p 
 p  img src="https:  cosleyzoo.org wp-content uploads cosley-zoo-logo72x72-2.png" style="float: left; padding: 0 8px 8px 0;" 1356 North Gary Ave. br 
Wheaton, IL 60187 br 
Phone: 630.665.5534 br 
Fax: 630.260.6408 br 
Email: a href="mailto:cosleyzoo@wheatonparks.org" target="_blank" cosleyzoo@wheatonparks.org  a   p 
 p  a href="http:  cosleyzoo.wpengine.com events zoo-rentals " Rent Cosley Zoo  a  for your next gathering!  p 
 p  a href="https:  aza.org" target="_blank"  img align="alignright" src="https:  cosleyzoo.wpengine.com wp-content uploads aza_logo_110x45.png" style="float: right; padding: 6px 0 8px 8px;"   a Cosley Zoo is a facility of the Wheaton Park District and is AZA-accredited.   p 
 p  br All content ©  a href="http:  wheatonparkdistrict.com" style="color: #F39949;" Wheaton Park District  a  | All Rights Reserved  p 
