 p The Springs Preserve is a hotspot for native wildlife. In addition to the  a href="origen.html" live animal exhibits  a , we're also home to more than 250 species of native wildlife living in natural and restored habitats along our trails and pathways. As you explore the Springs Preserve, you’re likely to spot free roaming ground squirrels, lizards, insects and more!  p 
 p  a href="https:  youtu.be qmbwxoIoobQ" The desert tortoise habitat  a  houses a small group of tortoises, including the immensely popular Mojave Max.  p 
 p Get to know the  a href="https:  www.flickr.com photos springspreserve sets 72157624748287170 " native furry, scaly and feathered critters  a  that we've spotted out and about at the Preserve.  p 
 p Press play to  a href="https:  youtu.be KWSl6jZrOAA" learn more about the wild grey foxes  a  that are frequently spotted on the trails at the Preserve.  p 
 p Gila monsters, cottontail rabbits, pocket gophers, lizards, a gray fox, and more! There’s plenty to see in our live animal exhibits, located within the  a href="origen.html" Origen Museum  a .   p 
 p Bird watchers are especially intrigued by the winged friends frequenting the Preserve's desert wetland, as species as diverse as the Western Screech-Owl, Hooded Oriole and Green Heron have been spotted. Just head to the  a href="trails.html" Cienega on our trails  a , and keep your eyes peeled.  p 
 p Wander through our unique, seasonal  a href="butterfly-habitat.html" Butterfly Habitat in the Botanical Garden  a , and witness the fascinating dance between free-flying butterflies, the plants that sustain them, and their important role as pollinators in the ecosystem. You'll emerge with a better understanding of the environment needed for the survival of these spectacular animals.   p 
 p Visitors can view a small group of desert tortoises, including  a href="https:  www.mojavemax.com " Mojave Max,  a  at our 15-acre habitat, located on the trails at the property's northwest corner. A federally threatened species, the tortoises are protected with fencing surrounding the habitat, and radio transmitters are used to track the tortoises' movements. The habitat was funded primarily through the Clark County Multiple Species Habitat Conservation Plan.  p 
 p class="TextLarger TextDimmed"  strong "Shellebrate" the arrival of Mojave Max and the Springs Preserve's Desert Tortoise Habitat with these turtley awesome gifts.  strong   p 
