 p Foxes live on every continent except Antarctica and  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals red-fox " thrive  a  in cities, towns, and rural settings. But despite being all around us, they’re a bit of a mystery. Here’s more about this elusive animal.  p 
 p Foxes are part of the Canidae family, which means they’re related to wolves, jackals, and dogs. They’re medium-sized, between 7 and 15 pounds, with pointy faces, lithe frames, and bushy tails. But unlike their relatives, foxes are  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals red-fox " not pack animals  a . When raising their young, they live in small families—called a “leash of foxes” or a “skulk of foxes”—in underground burrows. Otherwise, they hunt and sleep alone.  p 
 p Like the cat, the fox is most active after the sun goes down. In fact, it has vertically oriented pupils that allow it to see in dim light. It even hunts in a similar manner to a cat, by stalking and pouncing on its prey.  p 
 p And that’s just the beginning of the similarities. Like the cat, the fox has sensitive whiskers and spines  a href="http:  www.foxforest.com upclose catlikecanine.shtml" on its tongue  a . It walks on its toes, which accounts for its elegant, cat-like tread. And—get this—many foxes have  a href="http:  blog.peta.org.uk 2012 04 10-fascinating-facts-about-foxes-with-photos " retractable claws  a  that allow them to climb rooftops or trees. Some foxes even sleep in trees—just like cats.  p 
 p The red fox has the widest geographical range of any animal in the order  a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 23062 0" Carnivora  a . While its natural habitat is a mixed landscape of scrub and woodland, its flexible diet allows it to adapt to many environments. As a result, its range is the entire Northern Hemisphere, from the Arctic Circle to North Africa to Central America to the Asiatic steppes. It’s also in Australia, where it’s considered an invasive species.  p 
 p Like a guided missile, the fox harnesses the earth’s magnetic field to hunt. Other animals, like birds, sharks, and turtles, have this “magnetic sense,” but the fox is the first one we’ve discovered that uses it to catch prey.  p 
 p According to  a href="http:  www.newscientist.com article dn19945-foxes-zero-in-on-prey-via-earths-magnetic-field.html#.VE7HBVNBH0o"  em New Scientist  em   a , the fox can see the earth’s magnetic field as a “ring of shadow” on its eyes that darkens as it heads towards magnetic north. When the shadow and the sound the prey is making line up, it’s time to pounce. Here’s the fox in action:  p 
 p Foxes reproduce once a year. Litters range from one to 11 pups (the average is six), which are born blind and don’t open their eyes until  a href="http:  www.esf.edu aec adks mammals red_fox.htm" nine days after birth  a . During that time, they stay with the vixen (female) in the den while the dog (male) brings them food. They live with their parents until they're seven months old. The vixen protects her pups with surprising loyalty. Recently, a fox pup was caught in a trap in England for two weeks, but survived because its mother brought it food  a href="http:  www.dailymail.co.uk news article-1180392 Fox-cub-survives-weeks-trap-mother-brings-scraps-food-day.html" every day  a .  p 
 p Roughly the  a href="http:  www.livescience.com 27168-foxes.html" size of a kitten  a , the fennec fox has elongated ears and a creamy coat. It lives in the Sahara Desert, where it sleeps during the day to protect it from the searing heat. Its ears not only allow it to hear prey, they also  a href="http:  animals.nationalgeographic.com animals mammals fennec-fox " radiate body heat  a , which keeps the fox cool. Its paws are covered with fur so that the fox can walk on hot sand, like it’s wearing snowshoes.  p 
 p Foxes are known to be friendly and curious. They play among themselves as well as with other animals like cats and dogs. They love balls, which they frequently steal from golf courses.  p 
 p Although foxes are wild animals, their relationship with humans goes way back. In 2011, researchers opened a grave in a 16,500-year-old cemetery in Jordan to find the  a href="http:  www.cam.ac.uk research news was-the-fox-prehistoric-man%E2%80%99s-best-friend" remains of a man and his pet fox  a . This was 4000 years before the first-known human and dog were buried together.  p 
 p In the 1960s, a Soviet geneticist named Dmitry Belyaev bred thousands of foxes before achieving a  a href="http:  www.cbsnews.com news adopt-a-pet-fox-for-sciences-sake " domesticated fox  a . Unlike a tame fox, which has learned to tolerate humans, a domesticated fox is docile toward people from birth. Today, you can buy a pet fox for $9000, according to  a href="http:  www.fastcompany.com 3037451 pet-week meet-your-new-pet-a-domesticated-fox" Fast Company.  a  They’re reportedly curious and sweet-tempered, although inclined to  a href="http:  www.popsci.com science article 2012-10 fyi-domesticated-foxes" dig in your furniture  a .  p 
 p The arctic fox, which lives in the northernmost areas of the hemisphere, can handle cold better than most animals on earth. It doesn’t even get cold until  a href="http:  www.mnh.si.edu mna image_info.cfm?species_id=2" –70 degrees Celsius  a . Its white coat also camouflages it against predators. As the seasons change, the coat changes too, turning brown or gray so the fox can blend in with the rocks and dirt of the tundra.  p 
 p Perhaps because of the fox’s ability to decimate a chicken coop, in the 16th century, fox hunting became a popular activity in Britain. In the 19th century, the upper classes turned fox hunting into a formalized sport where a pack of hounds and men on horseback chase a fox until it is killed. Today, whether to ban fox hunting continues to be a controversial subject in the UK. Currently, fox hunting with dogs is  a href="https:  www.gov.uk hunting hunting-equipment" not allowed  a .  p 
 p Examples include: the nine-tail fox from various Asian cultures; the Reynard tales from medieval Europe; the sly trickster fox from Native American lore; and Aesop’s “ a href="http:  www.eastoftheweb.com short-stories UBooks FoxCrow.shtml" The Fox and the Crow  a .” The Finnish believed a fox made the Northern Lights by running in the snow so that its tail swept sparks into the sky. From this, we get the phrase “fox fires.”  p 
 p The bat-eared fox is aptly named, not just because of its 5-inch ears, but because of what it uses those ears for—like the bat, it  a href="http:  www.pbs.org wnet nature animal-guides animal-guide-bat-eared-fox 3249 " listens for insects  a . On a typical night, the fox walks along the African Savannah, listening, until it hears the scuttle of prey. Although the fox eats a variety of insects and lizards, most of its diet is  a href="http:  www.awf.org wildlife-conservation bat-eared-fox" made up of termites  a . In fact, the bat-eared fox often  a href="http:  animals.sandiegozoo.org animals bat-eared-fox" makes its home in termite mounds  a , which it usually cleans out of inhabitants before moving in.  p 
 p During his voyage on the  em Beagle  em , Charles Darwin collected a fox that today is unimaginatively called Darwin’s Fox. This small gray fox is critically endangered and lives in just two spots in the world: One population is on Island of Chiloé in Chile, and the second is in a Chilean national park. The fox’s greatest threats are unleashed domestic dogs that carry  a href="http:  www.arkive.org darwins-fox pseudalopex-fulvipes " diseases  a  like rabies.  p 
 p Foxes make 40 different sounds, some of which you can  a href="http:  www.youtube.com watch?v=J6NuhlibHsM&amp;feature=youtu.be" listen to here  a . The most startling is the scream:  p 
 p Pleasant dreams!  p 
 p  em All images courtesy of iStock unless otherwise stated.   em   p 
