 p class="published" 
      Updated 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 16, 2018 12:49:52
      span 
      p 
 p A jaguar has escaped from its enclosure at the Audubon Zoo in New Orleans and killed six other animals before it was captured, forcing the zoo to close for the day.  p 
 p    p 
 p The male jaguar's escape was reported about 7:20am on Saturday when the zoo was still closed to the public.  p 
 p The three-year-old jaguar, named Valerio, killed four alpacas, an emu and a fox in nearby habitats before it was sedated by the zoo's veterinary team less than an hour later. Three others animals were also injured.  p 
 p No people were injured, the zoo said.  p 
 p It was not immediately clear how the animal got out of its enclosure and zoo officials said they were investigating.  p 
 p "We're looking at every possible cause," Kyle Burks, the zoo's vice-president and managing director, said.  p 
 p "The safety of our guests and our staff and our animals is our number one priority and we take this situation very seriously and are working to investigate everything that happened so we can prevent anything like this from happening again."  p 
 p The jaguar's attack on other animals was likely territorial, rather than driven by a desire to hunt for food, officials said.  p 
 p    p 
 p "He's a young male jaguar — he was doing what jaguars do," Joel Hamilton, the zoo's general curator, said.  p 
 p "Certainly his behaviour wasn't out of the ordinary for that kind of an animal, and he's just a normal jaguar as far as we are concerned."  p 
 p But he said staff were devastated about the killed animals.  p 
 p "That has a fairly large impact on our staff. Our staff truly care about these animals, not just care for these animals. We have grief counsellors coming in to talk to staff to help them get through this," he said.  p 
 p "Nothing is going to happen to the jaguar itself."  p 
 p Valerio was born at the San Diego Zoo in March 2015 and was moved to New Orleans in October 2017.   p 
 p Male jaguars can reach 1.8 metres long, not including their tails, and weigh up to 113 kilograms.  p 
 p The zoo is expected to reopen to the public on Sunday. Officials emphasised that Saturday's incident was unprecedented and assured potential visitors there was no safety concern.  p 
 p  strong Reuters  strong   p 
 p class="topics" 
	 strong Topics:  strong 
	
	 a href=" news topic animal-attacks" animal-attacks  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic animals" animals  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic human-interest" human-interest  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic zoos" zoos  a ,


	
	 a href=" news topic united-states" united-states  a 
	
  p 
 p class="published" 
    First posted 
     span class="timestamp" 
      July 15, 2018 10:46:29
      span 
    p 
 p If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news,  a href=" news contact tip-off " target="_self" title="" contact the ABC  a .  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.abc.net.au news about backstory " target="_self" title="" ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  about.abc.net.au how-the-abc-is-run what-guides-us abc-editorial-standards " target="_self" title="" Read about our editorial guiding principles and the enforceable standard our journalists follow.  a   p 
 p Facebook removed 1.5 million videos of the Christchurch mosque attacks globally during the first 24 hours. That's their problem, and ours, writes Ariel Bogle.  p 
 p There's a lot of emotions people might be feeling in the aftermath of the terrorist attack in Christchurch. Get some tips on how to be an effective ally to those who feel marginalised.  p 
 p New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is calling for the country to remember the names of the victims of the Christchurch shootings instead of the "terrorist" who "sought notoriety" through the attacks. Read her full speech.  p 
 p Hoaxes that threaten your kids one day, and turn out to be fake the next, are exhausting for kids and adults. But there are tools and tricks to help you spot a hoax.  p 
 p 
           small This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.  small 
          p 
 p 
           small AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)  small 
          p 
