 p class="bec56 quartz none small" The important stories of innovation across the continent’s wide-ranging economies  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" In-depth coverage of the world’s largest democracy for India and its far-flung diaspora  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Lifestyle, culture, and living well in the new global economy  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Management news, advice, and ideas for business leaders  p 
 p class="bec56 quartz none small" Create, share, and discover charts, using the same tools as the Quartz newsroom  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" Sometimes playing God works.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" When the population of the Channel Islands fox fell to just 85 in 2004, wildlife officials knew they had a massive challenge on their hands. How to bring the adorable little animals back from the brink of extinction?  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" Unlike the loss of other species such as the black rhino or the jaguar, whose numbers have plummeted due to loss of habitat and human hunting, the island fox was the victim of another beloved species: the golden eagle.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" For thousands of years, island foxes were abundant on California’s Channel Islands, where they lived largely safe from predators or other threats. But when people settled on the islands 150 years ago, they brought along sheep and pigs. The pigs rapidly reproduced, became feral and scattered across the islands, particularly Santa Cruz island, the largest in this largely undeveloped archipelago off the California coast. Mainland golden eagles had mostly avoided the islands because there was little food to be found there, that is until they discovered the bounty of pigs there.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" They also discovered the island fox.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" By 2000, the entire population of island foxes was nearly wiped out. The US Fish and Wildlife Service, along with the Nature Conservancy, which strong    strong owns 76% of Santa Cruz island, came up with an ambitious plan to rid the island of feral pigs and golden eagles.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The pigs were trapped and shot, often from helicopters. The eagles were caught and shipped to the Northern Californian mainland. So far, they have not returned.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" Fifteen years later, the population of island foxes has rebounded beyond many people’s expectations, reaching more than 2000 foxes. That roughly equals the number that was strong    strong first counted in the 1970s. You can watch the whole story in the video above.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" “This is the fastest land mammal recovery ever accomplished in the United States,” said Christina Boser, an ecologist with the Nature Conservancy, and the leader of the fox recovery project.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" In February 2016, it was recommended that the fox be taken off the endangered species list, something that has only happened 33 times in the 50-year existence of the Endangered Species Act in the US. Wildlife officials are expected to officially take the fox off the list this summer.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" The success of the island fox’s recovery is being heralded as one the most significant in the Endangered Species Act’s half century of existence. But it’s unlikely that the techniques used to save the island fox are easily replicable. Each species in trouble faces its own unique threats, be they predators, habitat loss or some other pressure. For now, wildlife officials are ecstatic over their apparent success.  p 
 p class="a1dbe quartz" “This is a tremendous moment for the fox and for conservation as a whole,” said Ms. Boser.  p 
