 p class="updated"  strong Posted  strong  span  Mar 18 2019 11:32AM PDT  span   p 
 p class="updated"  strong Updated  strong  span  Mar 18 2019 11:58AM PDT  span   p 
 p  strong class="dateline" SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, Calif. (KTVU, KTXL)  strong  - Two 5-week-old bear cubs are now in the care of a rehabilitation facility in South Lake Tahoe, after being separated from their mother and found along a Northern California highway.  p 
 p Wildlife officials said the cubs were found on March 9 along State Route 96 in Yreka.  p 
 p Investigators believe someone may have illegally separated the cubs from their mother and left the young animals on the highway.  p 
 p The California Department of Fish and Wildlife said its investigators are processing evidence at the site where the cubs were discovered.  p 
 p Wildlife veterinarians evaluated the cubs and determined the young bears are healthy.  p 
 p The cubs have been named Blaze and Yreka and are now in the hands of Lake Tahoe Wildlife Care, where they will remain for the next year or so.  p 
 p While the whereabouts of their mother are a mystery, it's clear that her babies did not find their way to the roadside by themselves.  p 
 p At 5 weeks, they can't wander off on their own.   p 
 p “They scoot, but they don't walk. They can't yet,” Cheryl Millham, of Lake Tahoe Wildlife Care said.   p 
 p Animal care officials said the plan is to return the bears to the wild when they reach 100 pounds.  p 
 p The cubs currently weigh a little more than four pounds each.  p 
 p "So far, everything going well with these two boys," Lake Tahoe Wildlife Care wrote on Facebook on Saturday.   p 
 p The tiny bears have been put on a special formula and are fed four times a day. They're being kept in a crate. Eventually wildlife officials will move the animals to a larger habitat to give them room to climb, explore, play and become more independent.  p 
 p “We are the surrogate parents," Millham said.  "We’ll teach these guys what to look for and how to survive in the wild,” she said.  p 
 p So for the time being the two brother bears will depend on their surrogates and each other to get prepared for their return home, to the wild.  p 
 p The Department of Fish and Wildlife is asking the public for help in the search for whoever is responsible for separating the cubs from their mother, and investigators are looking into whether poachers were involved.   p 
 p Anyone with information on this case is asked to call the department's tipline at (888) 334-2258.  p 
 p class="updated"  strong Posted  strong  span  Mar 19 2019 06:38AM PDT  span   p 
 p class="updated"  strong Updated  strong  span  Mar 19 2019 07:11AM PDT  span   p 
 p A truck carrying salami and bacon caught on fire early Tuesday along Interstate Highway 580 in Livermore, causing a traffic mess for early morning commuters.  p 
 p The Alameda County Fire Department said they were able to extinguish the big-rig fire at North Flynn Road about 6:15 a.m. No injures were reported. But firefighters said to expect delays along the Altamont Pass.   p 
 p    p 
 p class="updated"  strong Posted  strong  span  Mar 18 2019 07:34AM PDT  span   p 
 p class="updated"  strong Updated  strong  span  Mar 19 2019 05:23AM PDT  span   p 
 p A California senator is calling on the Alameda County Board of Supervisors to approve an audit of the sheriff’s office after several “troubling reports,” including one by 2 Investigates that highlighted the story of a pregnant woman who ended up giving birth alone in a jail cell while deputies allegedly ignored her cries for help.  p 
 p Sheriff Gregory Ahern said he welcomes any audit while the president of the board of supervisors, Richard Valle, expressed concerns about the cost of a full audit to taxpayers.   p 
 p In a Feb. 15 letter to Valle, Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) noted the 2 Investigates’ reporting in November, which found that at least 29 women have sued the sheriff, alleging abuse and mistreatment, since 2014.  p 
 p class="updated"  strong Posted  strong  span  Mar 19 2019 06:07AM PDT  span   p 
 p class="updated"  strong Updated  strong  span  Mar 19 2019 06:20AM PDT  span   p 
 p (AP) -- The FBI was investigating President Donald Trump's former personal attorney and fixer for nearly a year before agents raided his home and office, documents released Tuesday show.  p 
 p The search warrant, while heavily redacted, offered new details about the federal inquiry of Cohen's business dealings and the FBI raids of his Manhattan home and office.  p 
 p It shows the federal inquiry into Michael Cohen had been going on since July 2017 -- far longer than had previously been known.  p 
