 p align="center" class="style60" Wildlife Conferences  p 
 p align="center" class="style38 style39"  span class="style11"  a href="http:  wri.ie pages conf-archive.html" target="_blank"  img src=".. images conference2.gif" alt="Conferences" width="142" height="142" border="0"   a   span    p 
 p align="center" class="style60" Wildlife Rehabilitation Ireland   p 
 p  br 
          p 
 p class="style60"  IWM Flyer  p 
 p    p 
 p The  fox plays an important role in balancing the ecological cycle  of nature by killing rodents and helping to control an excess of their  population. They  have a very wide diet and should be a gadeners friend as they get rid of pests such as beetles, slugs and grubs as well as rats and mice.  p 
 p class="style22" FOX FAQ's   p 
 p  strong I  have found an orphaned fox cub what should I do?   strong  br 
	        Do not touch it; leave it where it is  unless it is in danger, such as from a dog or cat, then contact a wildlife  rehabilitator from the Contacts page. Very often people think fox cubs are  abandoned because they do not see the parents. However, once the cubs are a few  weeks old, the adults tend to lie up elsewhere and only return periodically to  feed them. Please call for advice to be sure you’re doing the best for the fox.  p 
 p  strong Can  I feed the fox in my garden?  strong  br 
	        Foxes provide endless entertainment  and  many people do feed them, however we  strongly discourage it as there may be other people nearby who dislike foxes  and may not want foxes encouraged into the area unnecessarily.   p 
 p  strong Can  I rear an orphaned fox and release it into the wild?  strong  br 
This is possible, but it is expensive, challenging  and we strongly recommend that you hand it over to an experienced wildlife  rehabilitator instead. It is best to rear foxes with others of their own  species so that they develop social skills while growing up. It is essential  not to get the cubs imprinted on people, or for them to associate people with  food. Fox cubs are best reared by experienced wildlife rehabilitators; contact  a wildlife rehabilitator from the Contacts page.  p 
 p  strong Can  I keep a fox as a pet?  strong  br 
	        NO; this is a cruel and selfish thing to do. Fox cubs may look  cute, but they are wild animals and should be treated as such. As they grow,  they become extremely boisterous and destructive as you would expect from a  wild animal being kept in captivity.  p 
 p  strong Are foxes protected?   strong  br 
	        Foxes are not a protected species under Irish wildlife law. However, they do benefit from limited protection from animal cruelty laws. All hunting activities are regulated by law (even when the hunting activity targets species which are not 'protected species').            p 
 p  strong Fox  on the shed   strong  br 
            Foxes sometimes bask in sunshine, it should  move off the same day  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Fox  under the shed   strong  br 
            If the fox looks unwell (in behaviour or  appearance) use contacts page for advice. If it just appears to be resting  under the shed (even on multiple occasions) it's not necessarily unwell, however  foxes sometimes establish natal dens under sheds to raise cubs so prevent entry  if you don't want a fox family in your garden.  p 
 p  strong Will  the fox attack my child?   strong  br 
	        There are occasional incidents involving  foxes and children, invariably described in the press as an "attack",  however foxes are wary of people and would normally run away to avoid adults  and children. They will learn to trust people who are not causing them harm and  may appear quite bold – but this is unlikely to be a sign of aggression. A fox may  come into a house out of curiosity but would only attack out of fear. The fox  is a wild animal and will protect its young and defend itself if threatened but  left to its own devices foxes have a natural fear of humans.  p 
 p  strong Will  the foxes in my garden attack my cat dog?  strong  br 
            This is extremely unlikely. Foxes avoid  dogs, even small dogs, it is much more likely that your dog will attack the  fox, not the other way round.  Cats are  very capable of defending themselves against foxes. So it is hardly surprising  that foxes generally give cats a wide berth and flee when threatened by a cat.  p 
 p  strong Will  the fox eat my pet rabbit?   strong  br 
            This may happen if you do not house your  pets securely, although the risk is surprisingly low. On average, each urban  fox eats someone's pet once every six years! However, even though the risk is  low, it is only fair to your pet to keep it in a secure hutch.  p 
 p  strong Can  I get someone to trap and remove the foxes in my garden?   strong  br 
            There are pest control companies that use baited fox cage traps to catch and then kill a fox foxes, however; vacant territories are generally recolonised within a few days. Traps MUST be checked regularly.  br 
			A far better alternative is to contact  strong Wildlife Management Services  strong  (details below) for advice on   assistance with habitat exclusion. 
	        p 
 p  strong Can  a fox living in the city be returned to the countryside?  strong  br 
            It is a misconception that foxes do not  belong in cities: they are very adaptable and colonise a wide range of habitats  around the world. They are well established urban residents; it is humans who  have expanded into the fox’s habitat.  br 
			‘Dumping’ a city fox into the countryside  would leave them very vulnerable as they would suddenly have search for a  vacant territory in an area totally unfamiliar to them. This type of relocation could be considered 'abandonment' under the Animal Health and Welfare Act.   p 
 p Additionally, many foxes  suffer from a skin condition; 'mange' that can easily be spread to other foxes. Just because a fox     looks healthy does not mean that they are mange free so relocation of such foxes     into areas that are mange free could have worrying consequences to healthy     fox populations.   p 
 p  strong Can  my dog get mange from a fox?  strong  br 
It can, but this is not common. Even where  sarcoptic mange is prevalent in the local foxes, there are relatively few cases  in dogs strong .  strong   p 
 p  strong How  can I treat a fox with mange?   strong  br 
	        Mange in foxes can be a serious disease and  is often fatal if left untreated. If you feed a fox regularly, under guidance  from your vet or wildlife rehabber you may be able to try to improve its  prognosis by adding treatment to its food or if it is severely affected it will  need to be trapped and taken to a vet for treatment.  Contact a wildlife rehabilitator or vet on the  Contacts page.  p 
 p  strong How  do I stop foxes from chewing toys, shoes, garden hoses and vehicle cables?   strong  br 
	        If foxes frequent your garden, the easiest  solution is to make sure you do not leave toys, shoes or hoses in the garden  overnight, and check out the fox deterrent links below.  p 
 p  strong How  do I stop the foxes digging my lawn?   strong  br 
	        Once dug, the foxes tend to reopen the  holes every time they are filled in and this becomes a battle of wits with the  foxes. To try to stop them reopening the holes, water the area with a  commercial animal repellent and check out the fox deterrent links below.  p 
 p 	         strong How  will I protect my chickens from foxes?  strong  br 
	        Protective measures such as electric  fencing can reduce losses. People who keep a few chickens for their personal  use suffer no losses from foxes if they are securely housed and not left out at  night. Use weld-mesh (not chicken wire, which is not fox proof), a solid floor  so that foxes cannot dig underneath, and a secure lock that cannot be worked  loose (i.e. not a latch)  p 
 p  strong Can I put out poison for foxes?  strong  br 
          The  a href="http:  www.npws.ie sites default files general SI%20No.%20481%20of%202010%20European%20Communities%20(Birds%20and%20Natural%20Habitats)%20%20(Restrictions%20on%20Use%20of%20Poison%20Bait)%20Regulations%202010.pdf" target="_blank" EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (BIRDS AND NATURAL HABITATS) (RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF POISON BAIT) REGULATIONS 2010  a  br 
	        makes it an offence for a person to use any type of meat, fish, egg or other animal substance as bait to poison or stupefy birds or animals such as otters and pine martens, unless licensed to do so.
            p 
 p The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (DAFF) has confirmed that there is no pesticide registered or approved in the Republic of Ireland for poisoning of birds or foxes.  Alphachloralose was previously registered, and commonly used, to kill crows but this approved use was removed by DAFF, in line with an EU decision, in November 2008. Alphachloralose is now only registered and approved in Ireland for the control of mice.  Therefore any poisoning of foxes and crows is illegal in Ireland.  p 
 p  strong I  have found a dead fox in my garden what should I do about it?  strong  br 
	        If you have found a dead fox in your garden  ring your local County Council and arrange for the body to be collected.   p 
 p  strong What  can I do to stop foxes coming into my garden?  strong  br 
	        Ultimately, the best course of action is to  find out what attracts the fox to your garden and remove or disguise the  temptation.  Remove  any food that may be attracting the fox e.g. pet food or bird feeders that  attract small mammals. Ensure rubbish compost bins are covered to avoid  scavenging. Remove potential hiding or sheltering areas e.g. close shed doors,  block off any spaces underneath the shed, and cut long grass. br 
	        Where this isn’t possible, repellents and  fencing can be tried to ameliorate the problem.  p 
 p    p 
 p  span class="style22" FOX  REPELLENTS &amp; DETERRENTS:  span   p 
 p 	        Unfortunately whilst there is a huge market for repellents etc. it is hard to find one that works in an urban environment as these foxes have generally been exposed to a huge range of smells and noises from birth. In urban environments fox exclusion and habitat management is the most reliable way in which urban foxes can be managed.  p 
 p If you want to try some; we've listed a few below which can be sourced from this website: www.foxolutions.co.uk  p 
 p  strong The  Scarecrow:  strong  This was found very effective in many  tests that were carried out with it. When it detects a fox it lets out a spray  of water and the sound and water makes the fox learn that it needs to avoid  this place in future.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Foxwatch:  strong  Fox watch detects any fox movement and body heat, Foxes are  repelled by Foxwatch up to a distance of 60 feet away. Most animals like  ourselves cannot hear the Foxwatch alarm, this includes cats, birds, frogs,  hedgehogs and rabbits. Dogs can hear the alarm and will be deterred from  entering the protected area.   p 
 p  strong Scoot  Fox Deterrent:  strong  Widely acclaimed as the most  effective fox repellent on the market Scoot is a patented non toxic formula  used to keep foxes away from protected areas. It works by mimicking scent  marking odours thus leading any foxes that may be present to vacate the area in  the belief that another animal has taken over its territory. Scoot is totally  safe for use in gardens, on plants and edible crops and is humane,  bio-degradable and very effective.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Prickle  Strip:   strong One of the best ways to keep foxes out of  your garden is to prevent them getting in in the first place. Prickle strips  are designed to give maximum discomfort with minimum harm. The strips are made  from weather resistant polypropylene.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Night  Guard Solar:  strong  A solar-powered device which offers  night time protection from foxes. This maintenance-free product has a  high-intensity red flashing LED light which automatically turns on at dusk and  off in full daylight. A key benefit is that the solar-powered device needs  neither batteries nor mains electricity. Nite Guard Solar is based on a micro  warning light. A flash of light implies to all animals which hunt or feed at  night that they have been discovered or are being watched.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Get  Of My Garden:  strong  Get off My Garden is a citronella  scented jelly granule product. Specific applications are for defending soil  areas such as flower beds or planters against fouling and digging. Get off My  Garden offers a harmless yet effective means of deterring even the most  persistent fox. This product may also be used to encourage foxes to abandon  inhabited earths.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Ssscat:  strong  Deny foxes entry into the home through open doors, windows or cat  flaps with this device. Ssscat has two elements: a motion detector and an  aerosol can. It detects the fox's motion and releases a spray. The sudden hiss  and jet of compressed air acts as a very strong deterrent.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong One  way Gate:  strong  Occasionally foxes gain access to  awkward, hard to reach, areas such as under houses. There is one way to solve  this, this gate allows the foxes to exit but does not allow them to gain entry  again.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Brickle  Strip – Double Width Prickle Strip:   strong Brickle Strip  is easily attached to the top of a brick wall or ledge with glue, nails or  screws (see instructions below). Can also be used on tree branches or sheds.  Easy to cut and drill more holes if required. Is twice the width as prickle  strip but is taken from the same idea.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Wash  off and get off:  strong  Wash and Get Off spray is a unique  two in one formula that will not only clean up fox fouling but will also remove  the associated territory scent thus protecting the area from further attack.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong The  strike back repeller  strong : The StrikebackRepeller  differs from regular sonic fox repellers because, in addition to a high pitched  sound, it also triggers the flashing of a strobe light. This means that the fox  will receive both an audio and a visual fright once the Repeller detects the  fox.  strong   strong    strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Lawn  Rescue:   strong This special formulation is designed to  keep the lawn free from dying grass patches caused by animal urine. It  neutralises the staining agents and acid in fox urine by converting them into  natural salts.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Liquid  Disinfectant:   strong A liquid disinfectant suitable for  general cleaning and disinfecting of areas of fox fouling. Effective against  distemper, parvo virus and other infective organisms.   p 
 p  strong Liquid  Deodoriser:   strong Sol-Odamask is a highly concentrated  formulation of essential oils, odour absorbents and emulsifiers. It is suitable  for masking smells in areas that foxes have been inhabiting and fouling.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Householder’s  guide to fox deterrents:   strong This book seeks to help those  who suffer at the hands (or paws) of the urban and suburban fox. Whilst it  provides practical advice on deterring foxes, it also fascinates with  explanations for the animals' behaviour.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong Using  a Radio  strong : A novel idea that has emerged recently as  an excellent fox repellent is the use of a radio. This is a fox deterrent  method that has been employed by many cunning farmers for years. By cleverly  placing radios around their fields at points of entry where foxes gain access,  the radios are then tuned to a ‘talkie’ radio station. This gives the impression to the wily fox that there are  humans about and they will therefore give the area a wide berth to avoid danger  and confrontation.  p 
 p For  strong physical exclusion  strong  (i.e. fencing) designs and illustrations see  a href="http:  www.wildlifeonline.me.uk fox_deterrence.html" target="_blank" www.wildlifeonline.me.uk fox_deterrence.html  a   p 
 p    p 
 p class="style22" CONTACTS  for further information advice:  p 
 p  strong Wildlife Management Services  strong  (Irish)  br 
             em "We specialise in the provision of wildlife management services and consultancy in both the urban and rural environment. We offer effective and humane solutions to your wildlife and bird problems. We employ humane methods in order to manage wildlife populations, where possible we use habitat management as our first option."  em  br 
             a href="http:  www.wildlifemanagement.ie " target="_blank" www.wildlifemanagement.ie  a 
	      
	        p 
 p  strong Wildlife Online  strong  br 
            An educational website about  wildlife  with an EXCELLENT, very detailed section  br 
             em HOW DO I KEEP FOXES OUT OF MY GARDEN AND SECURE MY PETS?  em  span class="style17"  br 
             a href="http:  www.wildlifeonline.me.uk fox_deterrence.html" target="_blank" www.wildlifeonline.me.uk fox_deterrence.html  a   span  br 
             br 
   strong Foxwatch  Ireland  strong  br 
	         a href="http:  homepage.eircom.net ~foxwatchireland " target="_blank" www.homepage.eircom.net ~foxwatchireland   a  br 
	         br 
   strong Conserve  Ireland  strong  br 
	        Find out about protected species and  habitats in Ireland. Browse a database to see if species or habitats qualify  for designation as protected. You can also find out about legislation governing  this area br 
	         a href="http:  www.conserveireland.com mammals red_fox.php" target="_blank" www.conserveireland.com  a  br 
	         br 
   strong The  Fox Website, UK  strong  br 
	        Information on all aspects of red fox  ecology, behaviour, management and human conflict br 
	         a href="http:  www.thefoxwebsite.net " target="_blank" www.thefoxwebsite.net  a  br 
	         br 
   strong National  Fox Welfare Society, UK  strong  br 
	        A site dedicated to the welfare of the fox  population  br 
	        Phone: 01933-411996 Emergency: 07778-183954  br 
	        (prefix from Ireland 00 44 then drop first  0 in the phone number below) br 
	         a href="http:  www.nfws.org.uk " target="_blank" www.nfws.org.uk  a  br 
	         br 
   strong Foxolutions, UK  strong  br 
	        Humane fox control services, fox  repellents, fox deterrents, and fox proofing  br 
           a href="http:  www.foxolutions.co.uk " target="_blank" www.foxolutions.co.uk  a   p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p align="center" class="style60" Wildlife Rehabilitation  br 
            COURSE   p 
 p align="center"   span style="height:145px; top:535px;"  a href="http:  wri.ie wildlife-course index.html" target="_blank"  img src=".. images IWRC%20usa.jpg" alt="IWRC logo" width="90" height="80" border="0"   a   span   p 
 p    p 
 p align="center" class="style60" Join our Mailing List  br 
               span style="height:145px; top:535px;"  a href="http:  wri.ie pages mail.html" target="_blank"  img src=".. images mailing-list.gif" alt="mailing list icon" width="134" height="111" border="0"   a   span   p 
 p align="center" class="style60" Wildlife Crime Info   p 
 p align="center" class="style54"    p 
