 p ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) — The Latest on the death of a dog that participated in the Iditarod race (all times local):  p 
 p 7:15 p.m. Sunday  p 
 p A leader of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals denounced the Iditarod after a dog that participated in the race died. Tracy Reiman says the race is responsible for the death Saturday of Oshi, a 5-year-old female on the race team of Richie Beattie.  p 
 p “Oshi was just like any family’s dog, but the Iditarod forced her to run until she choked to death on her own vomit, just like so many dogs before her,” Reiman says in a statement. “Of those who survive, 81 percent are left with lung damage and 61 percent with gastric ulcers.  p 
 p “PETA is demanding a full veterinary evaluation of every single dog who was used in the 2019 Iditarod, including the 232 who were pulled from the race, so that the public can see how mushers’ pursuit of the prize purse under the pretense of loving these dogs shows a complete lack of concern in pushing them to and beyond their limits. If this had happened to human athletes, people would be in jail.”  p 
 p ———  p 
 p 10:40 p.m. Saturday  p 
 p Iditarod race officials say a dog on a racer’s team has died of pneumonia, and the musher has been withdrawn from the event.  p 
 p In a statement, the Iditarod organization announced that Oshi, a 5-year-old female on the race team of Richie Beattie died Saturday evening at an animal hospital in Anchorage from aspiration pneumonia.  p 
 p Beattie and his team finished the race on Thursday. The organization says that while carrying out post-race checkups, Iditarod Trail Committee veterinarians examining Oshi noticed signs of pneumonia.  p 
 p The dog was transported by emergency charter flight to Anchorage on Friday. The dog died the next day.  p 
 p The Idiatord says a necropsy will be conducted by a board-certified veterinary pathologist to determine the official cause of death.  p 
 p The 2019 race came during a bruising two-year stretch for the Iditarod that included a dog doping scandal and the loss of national sponsors amid protests by animal rights activists.  p 
 p People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is the biggest critic.  p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="https:  fox28spokane.com" FOX28 Spokane©  a   p 
 p  img src="https:  fox28spokane.com wp-content uploads 2015 10 logowhite.png" width="60%" border="0"  br 
© 2017 FOX28SPOKANE.com br 
All rights reserved. br 
KAYU FOX Television br 
4600 S Regal St br 
Spokane, WA 99223 • 509-448-2828  p 
 p    p 
