 p Be a Friend of the Albatross and help save thousands of lives each year.  p 
 p Learn how the world's largest wildlife survey started.  p 
 p Bird &amp; Wild coffee have been awarded Best Buy in Ethical Consumer’s latest review into coffee.  p 
 p 10 years of the Climate Change Act  p 
 p The winter can be a tough time of year for birds. But there are 10 top ways that you can give them a helping hand.  p 
 p Find out what to do if you spot a baby bird.  p 
 p A small, dark goose - the same size as a mallard. It has a black head and neck and grey-brown back.  p 
 p A nocturnal bird that can be seen hawking for food at dusk and dawn.  p 
 p male ring ouzels are particularly distinctive with their black plumage with a pale wing panel and striking white breast band.  p 
 p Become a campaign champion with the RSPB.  p 
 p  Explore these pages to find an opportunity that suits you.   p 
 p Help us create 1000 homes for swifts.  p 
 p There's so much to see and hear at Minsmere, from rare birds and otters to stunning woodland and coastal scenery.  p 
 p This is a delightful oak woodland to walk through – especially in spring and early summer.  p 
 p Heathland home to more than 2565 species.  p 
 p Nature is an adventure waiting to be had. Get out, get busy and get wild!  p 
 p Pond dipping is something we can all do and it's loads of fun!  p 
 p Explore the little pools of amazing sea life that are left by the tide on the rocks around our coast.  p 
 p The fox has reddish-brown fur, a white chest and a bushy, white-tipped tail, called a brush. Its nose and ears are pointed. Foxes are widespread and quite common throughout Britain, and a surprising number live in towns.  p 
 p They are active at dusk and during the night, searching alone for food. However, they tend to live in family groups of one dog, one vixen and her cubs and a few female helpers from previous litters.  p 
 p The family has several lairs and one or more breeding dens, or earths, within their territory. Females give birth to four to seven cubs between March and May.  p 
 p You may be lucky enough to see a fox, but they are shy creatures. Instead, look for evidence of their presence, such as tracks and droppings.  p 
 p They are scavengers and eat almost anything they can find, including insects, earthworms, fruit, berries, birds, small mammals, carrion and scraps left by humans.  p 
 p Throughout the garden searching for food. Look for tracks, droppings, overturned bins and chewed remains, which show a fox has paid you a visit. Foxes mark their territories with greyish droppings in prominent places.  p 
 p At dusk and night at anytime of year.  p 
 p We spend  a href=" about-the-rspb about-us how-the-rspb-is-run annual-review-old " 90% of net income  a  on conservation, public education and advocacy  p 
 p The RSPB is a member of  strong BirdLife International  strong . a href=" about-the-rspb at-home-and-abroad international #block-id-birdlife"  Find out more about the partnership  a   p 
 p class="copyright" 
          p 
 p ©  strong The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds  strong  (RSPB) is a registered charity: England and Wales no. 207076, Scotland no. SC037654  p 
 p We use cookies on our website to help give you the best online experience.  a href="http:  www.rspb.org.uk help managecookies.aspx?dcm=1" Tell me more  a   p 
