 p 
  p 
 p The swift fox is one of the smallest foxes 
in the world, and is only found in Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta in Canada, and
the states between North Dakota and Mexico in the United States. This 
fox is only about the size of a house cat, standing about 30 centimeters high
 and weighing about 2.7 kilograms. The swift fox gets its name because it can
 reach speeds of 40 km per hour. The swift fox is about two thirds the size 
of the red fox.  p 
 p Individual foxes and family groups have main earthen dens and often other 
emergency burrows in the home range. Their dens are usaully in sheltered 
places, such as in rocks and grasslands, and they have small burrows to 
prevent wolves from coming in. Dens of other animals, such as rabbits or 
marmots, are often used over a number of generations. Pathways throughout the
 home range connect the main den with other resting sites. The adult foxes 
change dens time to time to prevent attacks by coyotes and infections of 
parasites. Family foxes have about 30 dens in 600 acres of land. Some foxes 
build their dens in an oblong shape in loose soil.  p 
 p When hunting for food, foxes are usually solitary animals, and do not form packs like wolves, 
although some foxes hunt in a pack if the prey is small. Foxes communicate 
with one another by growls, yelps and short yapping barks.


  p 
 p In autumn following birth, the pups of the fox's litter will disperse to 
their own territories. Dispersal can be to areas as nearby as 10 kilometers 
and as far away as 400 kilometers. Foxes remain in their own home ranges for 
life.  p 
 p Catching prey and small game is the source of food for the fox. 
Rodents, lizards, and insects such as locusts are popular prey. Foxes may 
range several miles a night looking for food. A fox hunts like a cat by 
pouncing and stalking. It uses its keen sense of smell to find prey underground; the fox waits with patience and silence until the small prey comes 
out for something to eat. Then the fox quickly pounces on it and breaks its 
neck with its jaw (the 'neck-bite'), which kills the prey instantly. After 
catching its prey, the fox then carries it back to the fox shelter before it 
is eaten. A fox will cache any food it dosen't eat, or it will bury its food,
 and then dig it back up when it gets hungry.

  p 
 p Hunting is strictly an individual affair; no other animals are 
tolerated to join in. Food is not a laughing matter for foxes for they have 
been known to fight family members over it; food jealousy is common. Although
 they care for and tolerate those within their family unit, individual foxes
 want all the food for themselves.  p 
 p A newborn fox weighs about 4 ounces (110 grams), 
and has a short muzzle and closed eyes. Its eyes are open about 9 days 
after birth. Pups drink their mother's milk for about 5 weeks. Then they 
begin to eat some solid food, and leave their den for short periods of time. 
When the pups are older, they will start to wrestle with one another, and 
pounce on insects, leaves, sticks, and their parents' tails. The adults also 
bring live mice back to the den for their pups to pounce on. Later, the 
adults show the pups how to stalk prey. The pups start to live on their own 
in late summer, and may wander far from their place of birth. The parents 
may separate then or in early fall, and rejoin during the winter. The 
maximum lifespan known is 12 years which was spent in captivity. The 
average lifespan in the wild is 6 years.  p 
 p Foxes live together in family groups; they play together and cooperate 
when being hunted. If one of a pair of foxes is chased by an enemy, its mate will 
dash out of a hiding place and lead the pursuer astray. Enemies of the red fox 
are wolves, coyotes and bobcats. In desert lands, their enemies are wild 
dogs, large cats, hyenas and cougars. Other vicious animals will sometimes 
attack a weak or sick fox. All species of foxes are known for their cleverness
 in escaping their predators.
 
  p 
 p Foxes are curious and have  little fear of people, so they are easily 
killed. In the 1800s, they were considered pests, so they were trapped,
poisoned and hunted. Hundreds of foxes were destroyed accidentally during 
predator control programs aimed at removing wolves, coyotes, and ground 
squirrels from the prairies in the 1900s. Some people continue
 to mistake them for young coyotes and kill them. Habitat loss due to 
agricultural, industrial, and urban developments also reduced their numbers. 
Dens were ploughed over, and native grasses replaced with tall cereal crops 
that are unsuitable for foxes and for their food. 

  p 
 p Most people hunt the fox for game because of its skill in trying to avoid 
capture. Fox hunting is a very popular sport in England, where they chase a 
fox for miles on horses using dogs to track the scent of the fox, which may 
double back on its tail or run into the water, making its scent difficult to
 follow. Many hunters want only the excitement of the chase, and they usually 
don't kill the fox.  p 
