 p id="skip-link" 
       a href="#main-content" class="element-invisible element-focusable" Skip to content  a 
      p 
 p The European red fox (Vulpes vulpes) is listed as an Invasive Biosecurity Matter which requires landholders to manage this species in accordance with the  a href=" environment-waste natural-environment protecting-biodiversity-brisbane wildlife-brisbane pest-animals-invasive-species biosecurity-act-2014" Biosecurity Act 2014  a  and the  a href=" environment-waste natural-environment biodiversity-brisbane wildlife-brisbane pest-animals-invasive-species invasive-species-management-brisbane" Biosecurity Plan for the Brisbane Local Government Area  a . Foxes pose a serious threat to native wildlife and domestic animals.  p 
 p The European red fox was introduced into Victoria in 1855 as part of an acclimatisation program for the sport of recreational hunting. After the dingo and wild dog, the fox is the largest carnivorous mammal on mainland Australia. Poultry of all types are vulnerable to attacks by wild dogs, foxes and free roaming domestic dogs.  p 
 p Council encourages the reporting of fox sightings, including the presence of dens, as this information is used to determine the best location to implement management programs.  p 
 p To report a fox you can fill out the  a href=" about-council contact-council report-it-feral-animal-sightings" target="_blank" Feral animal sightings online form  a  or phone Council on 07 3403 8888.  p 
 p European red fox generally:  p 
 p European red foxes are common in the urban-rural fringe areas as they look for food around rubbish bins, barbeque and picnic areas in parkland and dig in backyard compost heaps. During the day they shelter in thick vegetation along gullies and creek banks, in hollow logs, under houses, in drainpipes and even old car bodies.  p 
 p Foxes cause many problems as they:  p 
 p The first step is to make your property less attractive to foxes:  p 
 p Brisbane City Council is managing the impacts of foxes on native wildlife through trapping and fox den detection.  p 
 p Find out how you can  a href=" environment-waste natural-environment protecting-wildlife-brisbane pest-animals-invasive-species european-red-fox building-fox-proof-poultry-pen" build a fox-proof poultry pen  a .   p 
 p Read more about the  a href="https:  www.daf.qld.gov.au __data assets pdf_file 0019 73810 IPA-Fox-PA13.pdf" target="_blank" European red fox  a .   p 
 p If you have tried all of these options and there is still a problem, phone Council on 07 3403 8888 for advice or to learn more about their management.  p 
