 p class="largeText"  em Urocyon cinereoargenteus  em   p 
 p  strong What does a gray fox look like?  strong   p 
 p class="padHL" The gray fox is a small, lean animal, about 31  - 44 inches long including tail, and 12 - 16 inches in height measured at the  shoulder. It can weigh from 7 to 14 pounds but 10 -12 pounds is average. Males  are slightly larger than females. The gray fox is somewhat shorter than the red fox. Its face, back, and tail are a  salt-and-pepper gray. It has a black stripe running down the top of its tail,  and around the entire tail tip. Legs, flanks, and underside of tail are rusty  red. Nose and muzzle are black. Throat, chest, and belly are white. Male and female  gray foxes are colored alike. The pelt of the gray fox is coarser and less  dense than that of the red fox, so its pelt has been less sought for fashion  use.  p 
 p  strong Where do gray foxes live?  strong   p 
 p class="padHL" Gray foxes prefer dense hardwood or mixed hardwood softwood  forests, but will also frequent overgrown fields and woodland edges. Their home  range is generally thought to be about 1 square mile, though some sources have  reported as much as 4 square miles. Gray foxes seldom build underground dens;  instead they use a hollow log or tree, a rock crevice, a wood or brush pile, or  the space beneath outbuildings. They usually have several dens, and if one den  is disturbed, they will move their kits to another den.   p 
 p  strong What do gray foxes eat?  strong   p 
 p class="padHL" The gray fox is an opportunist that eats a variety of  animals and plants including mice, meadow voles, squirrels, chipmunks, eastern  cottontail rabbits, ruffed grouse, opossums, young turkeys, quail, and  occasional ducks. They will also eat crickets, grasshoppers and other insects. In season, they will eat strawberries, blueberries,  blackberries, raspberries, huckleberries, wild grapes, apples, rosehips, and  beechnuts, as well as corn and other grains. The gray fox will also eat fresh  carrion. Its main predators include humans, coyotes, and bobcats. Great horned  owls and golden eagles will prey on kits.   p 
 p  strong Do gray foxes have any special adaptations or behaviors?  strong   p 
 p class="padHL" The gray fox is more nocturnal  than the red fox and hunts from late evening until dawn. It communicates  through a variety of yips, barks, whines, and growls. The gray fox may use  scent, sight and hearing in hunting. In its search for prey, the gray fox may  use its keen sense of smell to identify the presence of prey, which it will  stalk and then rush. It can also use its pointed, movable ears to locate small  animals moving under snow or matted vegetation. It will then leap and pounce  attempting to pin the prey with its forepaws. It uses sight opportunistically  to capture insects in its path. Mated pairs hunt cooperatively.  p 
 p class="padHL" The  gray fox is the only North American canid capable of climbing trees. The gray  fox uses its semi-retractable front claws to grasp a tree trunk while pushing  upward with its back claws. When descending it can back down like a cat, or  jump from branch to branch—a technique it also uses to avoid predators. Like  the red fox, the gray fox uses urine and feces to mark its territory, and may  leave scat in a conspicuous place in the middle of a trail. The scent of gray  fox markings is not as strong as that of the red fox.   p 
 p  strong How many kits do gray foxes have?  strong   p 
 p class="padHL" The gray fox is monogamous  during one breeding season, and the same pair may remain together through  multiple years. Both male and female care for the young. In northern New  England, the gray fox breeds between February and March, while in warmer areas,  breeding may start in January. Gestation lasts 53 days and the kits are born in  April or May. A litter usually consists of 3 - 5 young, which are born blind  and helpless. Their eyes open in 9 - 12 days and the kits are walking in 3  weeks. They remain in the den until they are 4 - 5 weeks old. The vixen nurses  the young until they are 12 weeks old and the male brings food to her and the  kits. At the age of about 12 weeks the kits are weaned and follow their parents  learning how to hunt. At 4 months, the kits have their full set of adult teeth  and can support themselves, but remain with their parents into the fall.  First-year mortality is high, but lifespan for surviving individuals is from 6  to 8 years, and up to 12 years in captivity.  p 
 p class="review-text" This is a very pricey cross between a zoo and a nature trail. The science center features several exhibits relating to the animals in the area. It also has exhibits relating to conservation etc. They offer animal shows,  demonstrating live animals several times a day, and feedings three days a week, so check the schedule to see if your favorite is on display.  In addition to the move animal exhibits the center features several walking trails offering an opportunity to see local wildlife and plant life.  Most tree species are marked for easy identification of the local foliage.  There is also a ninety minute boat tour of squam lake available for an additional fee.  p 
 p class="review-text" My Husband and I stopped here on the way home from visiting Mt. Washington, and we were pleasantly surprised! It was very clean and well maintained, and there were a lot of healthy active animals. We did the live animal exhibit trail...I’m pregnant and wanted something nice and easy. We took our time and it took about 2 hours (if you have kids, there’s so much to do with them, like a playground and picnic area). There were many benches, most of it was in the shade, no big hills, and it was very stroller friendly and handicap accessible. It was so educational, and lots of care and thought went into all of the exhibits, great for kids and adults! Can’t wait to take the baby back here in a few years!  p 
 p class="review-text" My family and I had such a great day here.  I loved the flower gardens.  It's so beautiful and smells amazing!  We all enjoyed the exhibits and will return again in the future.  p 
 p class="review-text" Great enclosures for the animals with water features and lots of shade! And for taking pictures, no cage lines in my pictures because they use thick glass for viewing. Animals looked very healthy especially the lion she was fat :) Loved the walking trails too. It was just lots of fun and we will be back when its not so hot!  p 
 p class="review-text" Very nice place, clean and informative. Different from other places - lots for kids to learn hands on. I was a little apprehensive due to the cost and not many animals but felt like it was worth every penny. I would recommend packing a lunch and taking advantage of the trails - make a full day out of it.  p 
 p class="center"  a href="https:  search.google.com local writereview?placeid=ChIJJztB72tDs0wRzM-gRgKKa28" target="new" class="button blue" Write a Google Review  a   p 
