 p class="animal_quote" Possessing the legendary reputation for being cunning, the small and clever American Red Fox is respected throughout North America.  p 
 p The  strong Red Fox ( em Vulpes vulpes  em )  strong  is known for its fur color and long, bushy tail. Catching a glimpse of this clever mammal is always a pleasant experience. American Expedition is proud to present  a href="#info"  strong information  strong   a ,  a href="#facts"  strong interesting facts  strong   a , and  strong photos of the Red Fox  strong .  p 
 p class="animal-info-attribution-image"  a href="http:  www.flickr.com photos dominiqs 2430885766 " target="_blank" Photo  a  by  a href="http:  www.flickr.com photos dominiqs " target="_blank" Domenico Salvagnin on Flickr  a   p 
 p A red fox has a relatively long body with dense fur. The fur is typically a rusty red color, and the legs are darker in color, sometimes even black. Foxes have black pointed ears and long canine teeth. On their underside, the fur is white from their nose down to their belly. A male fox, also called a “dog” weighs 10-12 pounds on average, while the female fox, also known as a “vixen,” weighs 9-10 pounds. A male measures 54”-78” long, and a female measures 56”-74” long. Male foxes tend to have a longer snout as well.  p 
 p Red Foxes mate in the winter and the female fox gives birth to a litter of 2-12 “kits” in the spring. The kits are dark gray in color at the time of birth, but grow a new coat within a month. Both the male and female fox cares for the kits until they are ready to leave in the fall. Female foxes reach sexual maturity at the age of 10 months, while male foxes take a little longer to mature. The average lifespan in the wild is 2-4 years.  p 
 p Red foxes live in a wide range in the Northern Hemisphere. They live in grasslands, deserts, mountains, forests, and even suburban areas. They adapt very well to different environments, but prefer wooded areas the most. When it is breeding season, foxes will build dens and stay in them. When it is not breeding season, foxes sleep in the open.  p 
 p Foxes are omnivores who hunt mainly small rodents, birds and rabbits. However, they will occasionally eat vegetables, fruit, mice, and fish.  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" Foxes have excellent senses. They can hear an animal underground, and pounce where they think the animal is going!  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" Foxes are omnivores, hunting small rodents, birds, and rabbits, but also eating vegetable and fruit.  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" Foxes can make 12 different vocal sounds. Kits can produce 8 sounds.  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" Red foxes are omnivores.  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" A fox's tail is also known as a brush.  p 
 p class="experienceItemCaption" A fox can live up to 10-12 years in captivity, but only about 3 years in the wild.  p 
 p class="footer_text" © 2015  strong  a href="https:  americanexpedition.us" American Expedition  a , a brand by a href="http:  www.ideaman-inc.com"  Ideaman, Inc.  a   strong  ∙ 7 Cedar Ct. Union, MO 63084 ∙ Toll Free US: 1-800-205-4332 ∙ International: 1-636-583-1145  p 
 p Interested in Wildlife Gifts &amp; Decor? Visit the Wildlife section of our store!  p 
 p  a id="close_slidebox"   a    p 
