 p Our district is characterised by bushland, rural and semi-rural environments, which still retain a reasonable proportion of native habitat. We often find we are sharing our backyards and properties with a range of native wildlife. Mostly we can happily co-exist, however on occasion there are species which can cause problems. We must remember that these wild animals are instinctively trying to survive and are sometimes under enormous pressure in a rapidly changing environment. They are also protected under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972 (NPW Act).  a href="http:  www.environment.sa.gov.au managing-natural-resources plants-and-animals Living_with_wildlife" target="_blank" The Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources (DEWNR) has more information about living with wildlife  a .  p 
 p  a href="#echidna" Echidnas  a  br  a href="#rakali" Rakali (native water rat)  a  br  a href="#possums" Possums  a  br  a href="#kangaroo" Kangaroos  a  br  a href="#koala" Koalas  a  br  a href="#snakes" Snakes  a  br  a href="#birds" Birds  a  br  a href="#insects" Insects   Spiders  a  br   p 
 p  strong style="color:#080808;"   strong    p 
 p  strong style="color:#080808;" ECHIDNAS   strong   p 
 p ​Echidnas are widespread through the Adelaide Hills and Australia, and are not listed as a threatened species.  p 
 p Echidnas are one of only two 'Monotremes' in Australia (the other being the Platypus), which means they are egg-laying mammals. They are characterised by their prickly quills (spines) covering their body and have very strong claws for digging. They hibernate in the winter, and on hot days will forage at night to avoid the heat. They feed exclusively on ants and termites.  p 
 p  em Pictured: Echidna by Claire Punter  em   p 
 p  span aria-hidden="true"   span If you see an echidna and it is not injured or in danger then try not to disturb it. When an echidna feels threatened it rolls itself into a ball and uses it's spines for protection or will dig down into the ground. Female echidnas are likely to have their young in a nearby burrow and these young 'puggles' will stay within their mother's den for up to a year before leaving.  p 
 p The main threats to echidnas are crossing roads, where they can be hit by cars. If you find an injured echidna and need to move it, use gardening gloves to protect your hands from the spines and report it to a fauna rescue organisation or a local vet clinic for treatment.  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.mintonfarm.org " Minton Farm Native Animal Rescue Centre and Injured Animal Hospital  a  | 0422 938 439 br Fauna Rescue of SA Inc. Wildlife Hotline | (08) 8289 0896 span aria-hidden="true"   span   p 
 p  strong style="color:#080808;"  br  a name="rakali" id="rakali" href="#"  span style="color:#080808;" RAKALI (NATIVE WATER RAT)  span   a   strong   p 
 p ​The Rakali ( em Hydromys chrysogaster  em ) is a webbed-footed native water rat that is considered endangered in the Mount Lofty Ranges. One of only two freshwater amphibious mammals in Australia (the other being the platypus), the Rakali is generally nocturnal, lives in metre-long burrows along the banks of watercourses and lakes, and feeds on small fish, yabbies, frogs, reptiles, large aquatic insects, and spiders.  p 
 p  em Pictured: Rakali by Colin Phil Cook  em   p 
 p The Rakali is distinctive due to its water-repellent fur, partially webbed feet, heavily whiskered face, golden coloured belly, and thick white-tipped tail that is roughly the same length as its body.  p 
 p The major threats affecting the survival of this iconic local species include:  p 
 p The Rakali is protected under the  em National Parks and Wildlife Act   em and we encourage our community to help them thrive by keeping waterways clear of rubbish, keeping pets safely confined or on leads when walking, and avoiding the use of yabbie nets, which are death traps to these little natives.  p 
 p  strong  br  a name="possums" id="possums" href="#"  span class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" POSSUMS  span   a   strong   p 
 p     These nocturnal marsupials emerge from their dens or hollows at night and venture out in search of food; traversing roof tops, tree canopies, power lines and fences to avoid the ground where predators and other dangers lurk. They are mostly a wary creature, avoiding humans unless they are being fed, but can pose a nuisance by feeding on garden produce and damaging fruit trees and flowers, whilst also proving to be a noisy resident when living in the roof cavity.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Common Ringtail Possum by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     Several steps can be taken to minimise the nightly disturbance and protect domestic gardens and horticultural produce from the scavenging possums.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links br   strong  font class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5"  a href="http:  www.mintonfarm.org " target="_blank" Minton Farm Native Animal Rescue Centre and Injured Animal Hospital  a   font  | 0422 938 439 br     Fauna Rescue of SA Inc.Wildlife Hotline | (08) 8289 0896 br     Bats incl. Microbats &amp; Flying Foxes Rescue Hotline  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" |  strong  0474 204 617 br  a href="http:  www.faunarescue.org.au possum-boxes.htm" target="_blank" SA Fauna Rescue Possum Box  a   p 
 p  strong  br class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5"  a name="kangaroo" id="kangaroo" href="#"  span class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" KANGAROOS  span   a   strong   p 
 p ​As our urban areas encroach on preferred kangaroo habitat, residents increasingly come into contact with them which could become dangerous for the kangaroos or residents. For the most part, kangaroos are placid animals, but can be dangerous when they feel threatened, however the overall risk of being attacked by a kangaroo is very low.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Western Grey Kangaroo by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     It is important you are aware of how important it is to enjoy these animals from a distance. Several steps can be taken to minimise the risk to humans or animals.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links  strong  br     Fauna Rescue of SA Inc. Wildlife Hotline | (08) 8289 0896 (injured kangaroos) br     Adelaide Hills Council | (08) 8408 0400 (dead kangaroos)   p 
 p     Please remember, kangaroos are protected animals and it is an offence to injure or kill them. If you believe there is an abundance of kangaroos in your area, please contact  font class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5"  a href="http:  www.environment.sa.gov.au managing-natural-resources Plants_Animals Abundant_species Kangaroo_conservation_management" target="_blank" Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources  a   font  as they are responsible for the conservation and management of abundant kangaroo species in South Australia. (08) 8204 1910   p 
 p  strong  br  a name="koala" id="koala" href="#"  strong class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" KOALAS  strong   a   strong   p 
 p ​The koala was formally only located in the lower south-east of South Australia but was hunted to extinction for the fur trade. To help secure their survival, Koalas were introduced to the Mount Lofty Ranges and other regions between 1959-69. There are now an estimated 114,000 koalas throughout the Mount Lofty Ranges and have become an iconic native species with a very high public profile. They are protected by law in South Australia under the  em data-redactor-tag="em" National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972  em  (NPW Act).   p 
 p  em Pictured: Koala by Tonia Brown  em   p 
 p Unfortunately, koalas have built up to unsustainable numbers within the region and threaten the very habitat on which they rely, primarily  em data-redactor-tag="em" Eucalyptus viminalis  em  (Manna Gum). In many areas these trees are showing chronic signs of defoliation due to over-browsing by koalas and in some cases, death. The Department of Water and Natural Resources has developed a strategy to help conserve and manage the koalas across our state. This Strategy brings together government, the community, natural resource managers, experts and scientists to look at ways of working together to guide, manage and conserve our koala population long into the future. We all have a role to play in implementing the Strategy’s actions. For more information please read through  a href="https:  www.environment.sa.gov.au files sharedassets public plants_and_animals koala-conservation-and-management-strategy-gen.pdf" target="_blank"  em data-redactor-tag="em" The South Australian Koala Conservation and Management Strategy  em .   a   p 
 p     Many residents encounter koalas on a regular basis, visiting the trees within their gardens and in local reserves and roadsides, crossing roads, and unfortunately as roadkill on the major highways. They are particularly prevalent during the breeding season (September to February) and during heatwaves where they will spend more time on the ground moving between trees or searching for water. Despite the healthy population of koalas in the Adelaide Hills district, the species still face significant challenges from the impacts of development and destruction of their habitat, disease, vehicle strikes, dog attacks and bushfires.   p 
 p     You can take some actions to minimise impacts on koalas and assist in their conservation:   p 
 p     It is important to remember that koalas do not live in our backyards, rather we are living in theirs. Never attempt to pick up a koala on the ground, as it is extremely stressful to the animal and they can become aggressive and will likely scratch or bite.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links br   strong DEWNR | (08) 8204 1910 (sick or injured koalas) br     Koala Rescue hotline (24 hours) | 1300 KOALAS (1300 562 527) br Adelaide Hills Council | (08) 8408 0400 (removal of dead koalas from minor roads) br     Department of Planning, Transport and Infrastructure | 1800 018 313 (removal of dead koalas from state roads)   p 
 p  strong  br  a name="snakes" id="snakes" href="#"  span class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" SNAKES  span   a   strong   p 
 p     The most common snakes encountered in the region are the Eastern Brown Snake ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Pseudonaja textilis  em ), Red-bellied Black Snake ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Pseudechis porphyriacus  em ), the Pygmy Copperhead ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Austrelaps labialis  em ) and the Little Whip Snake ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Parasuta flagellum  em ). They are all venomous snakes but bites to humans are rare due to their timid and inconspicuous nature. They will try and avoid confrontation by either moving away and hiding, or lying still until the threat has moved away. However, they may try to defend themselves if they feel cornered or threatened.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Eastern Brown Snake by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     Snakes generally inhabit natural areas of bushland, grasslands and creeklines of the Adelaide Hills, but have also adapted well to urban environments. They predominantly feed on rats and mice and find suitable shelter around our homes and sheds.   p 
 p     It is important to be aware that snakes live in our environment, are protected under the  em data-redactor-tag="em" Natural Parks and  em   em data-redactor-tag="em" Wildlife Act 1975  em . and there are steps that can be taken to minimise the chance of encounters.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" If you find a snake:  strong    p 
 p     If you feel you need to remove the snake from an inappropriate location, please contact a snake removal service.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links br   strong Snake Catchers Adelaide (24 hours) | 0413 511 440 (Southern Adelaide, Hills and Fleurieu) br     Adelaide Hills Snake Catcher (24 hours) | 0427 991 573 (Adelaide Hills) br     Snake - Away Services | 0413 511 335   p 
 p  strong  br  a name="birds" id="birds" href="#"  span class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" BIRDS  span   a  br   strong A range of birds utilise the habitats within the Mt Lofty Ranges. Many of these species are still reliant on the native woodlands, shrublands and grasslands, whilst others have adapted to the changes brought about by agriculture and urbanisation.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Backyards br   strong   p 
 p ​Birds such as the Eastern Rosella, Rainbow Lorikeet, New Holland Honeyeater, Eastern Spinebill, Crested Pigeon, Common Bronzewing, Australian Raven and Spotted Pardalote are some of the Australian Museum’s top 30  em data-redactor-tag="em" Birds in Backyards.  em  These species are often attracted to the diversity of foods provided by exotic and native gardens and fruit trees, domestic chicken coups and bird feeders. Some residents welcome birds to their backyards providing bird baths and actively planting suitable plant species such Wattles, Hakeas, Eucalypts, Bottlebrushes, Teatrees and Sheoaks to attract birds.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Rainbow Lorikeet by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     Artificially feeding birds is not encouraged as it is detrimental to their health and survival; they can become overly reliant on the food source and can become aggressive, harassing people for food when they are hungry. They are also less likely to continue foraging for their normal wide range of natural foods, and become sick from a diet of processed seeds, breads and other foods.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Aggression in birds  strong   p 
 p ​Many people have experienced swooping birds when they are nesting. Birds such as the Australian Magpie, Magpie Lark (Murray Magpie) and the Masked Lapwing (Plover) are frequent culprits during the spring, aggressively and instinctively defending their nests and young from passing pedestrians, cyclists and dogs. Noisy Miners and Wattlebirds will also swoop, but this can happen all year round. At times these birds will even make contact with the passer by, causing injury.  p 
 p  em Pictured: Masked Lapwing (plover) by Yvonne Gravier  em   p 
 p Some of the precautions you can take to minimise contact with aggressive birds include:   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Unwanted nesting birds br   strong Some species such as Striated Pardalotes, Welcome Swallows, Common Blackbird and the Feral European Pigeon have found human habitation ideal for their nesting locations, choosing sheds, carports, open cavities in roofs, telegraph poles and other small spaces in and around our homes. Some residents are happy to oblige and even encourage nesting species, whereas others may not find it so endearing. Nesting birds and their young can often be noisy and leave a mess beneath their nests and in the roof.   p 
 p     It can be a very difficult task to relocate nests without disturbing birds once they are sitting on their eggs. Baby birds grow quickly so will only occupy the nest for a short period of time and then fly away to find their own territory. This is ideally the time to destroy or remove the nest and make the area less attractive to birds before next spring nesting season. This can be achieved by erecting wire or blocking access to the area where the nest was. Alternatively the nest could be removed prior to eggs being laid.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Agricultural lands  strong   p 
 p ​Other species such as the Little Corella, Galahs, Sulphur-crested Cockatoo, Musk Lorikeet, Rainbow Lorikeet and the introduced Common Blackbird can become pests in the agricultural regions of the district and regularly cause damage to commercial crops, such as orchards and other crops. The food sources for these birds have increased significantly due to the establishment of vineyards, fruit crops and flowering trees.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Galah by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     There are a number of options to assist in minimising the damage caused by birds, including netting orchard trees and vines, which is very labour intensive, costly and is not 100% effective. Gas guns are partially effective, but are not suitable in more heavily populated areas. There are Destruction Permits issued by Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources (DEWNR), and whilst most of the native species are protected under the  em data-redactor-tag="em" National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972  em , several species such as listed as  em data-redactor-tag="em" Unprotected Species  em  and a permit is not required to destroy the animals by shooting. In any circumstances, when destroying an animal you must aim to minimise suffering of the animal. You also must comply with animal welfare standards outlined in the  em data-redactor-tag="em" Animal Welfare Act 1985  em , the regulations under that Act and codes of practice where they exist.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links br   strong  font class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5"  a href="https:  www.legislation.sa.gov.au LZ C A PREVENTION%20OF%20CRUELTY%20TO%20ANIMALS%20ACT%201985.aspx" target="_blank" Animal Welfare Act 1985  a   font  br  font color="#000080"  a href="http:  www.environment.sa.gov.au files sharedassets public plants_and_animals fauna-permits-species-codes-gen.pdf" target="_blank" Fauna Permits  a   font  br  font color="#000080"  a href="http:  www.mintonfarm.org " target="_blank" Minton Farm Native Animal Rescue Centre and Injured Animal Hospital  a   font  | 0422 938 439 br     Fauna Rescue of SA Inc.Wildlife Hotline (24 hours) | (08) 8289 0896  p 
 p  strong  br  a href="#insects"  span class="ms-rteThemeForeColor-2-5" INSECTS   SPIDERS  span   a  br   strong Part of living in the Adelaide Hills means having to share our space with native and introduced insects and other creepy crawlies. Some of these are more of a nuisance than danger, such as the introduced millipede, whilst others can pose a danger to humans and are known to deliver a painful bite or sting (e.g. bees, wasps and venomous spiders), and cause severe reactions in some people. The most common species encountered in the Hills include bees, European wasps, millipedes, mosquitoes, Hopper ants, Inch ants, and Redback, Huntsman and Whitetail spiders.   p 
 p     A common sense approach should be applied to common insects and spiders, to minimise contact with the species and reduce the risk of harm from bites and stings.   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" European Honey Bee  strong   p 
 p ​European bees were introduced to Australia with the onset of European colonisation 200 years ago. Despite the fact that they displace the native bee species by competing for food, they perform an important function by pollinating the plants. Bee stings are common and can be painful and itchy, sometimes triggering an allergic reaction (Anaphylaxis) where the victim requires immediate medical attention.   p 
 p  em Pictured: European Honey Bee by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     What can be done to minimise the risks?   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Millipede br   strong The black Portuguese millipede was accidentally introduced to Port Lincoln, South Australia in 1953, and has since spread across the state in large numbers. They are an herbivorous creature, eating only dead and decaying plant matter. They don’t bite, are not poisonous or harm human beings in any way.   p 
 p     Barriers, both chemical and physical, and light traps are the most practical ways of preventing millipedes from invading houses. At the landscape scale, biological control is probably the only feasible method, but no suitable agents have been found yet. A parasitic nematode has had limited effect. A suitable chemical, applied in a band wide enough to kill millipedes crossing it, can be applied to brick or cement surfaces around the house, and to doorsteps and window ledges. Physical barriers stop and or trap millipedes moving towards the house. A smooth, clean, vertical surface is effective, or a moat with overhanging sides. They are also attracted to light, and you can construct a millipede trap out of a length of oblong-section galvanised steel downpipe and a low voltage bulb.   p 
 p     As a defence mechanism, the millipede secretes a pungent yellowish fluid containing hydrogen cyanide. This stains clothes permanently and irritates eyes. Due to this defence it is best to sweep them up rather than crush them.   p 
 p  font color="#000080"  a href=" Resident pets-animals pests" target="_blank" Click here for other information about insects  a   font .   p 
 p  strong data-redactor-tag="strong" Contacts and useful links br   strong  font color="#000080"  a href="http:  www.bees.org.au swarms.htm#swarmlist" target="_blank" Beekeepers' Society of South Australia (BSSA)  a   font    p 
 p  strong Hopper Ants and Bull Ants br   strong The Hopper Ant or Jumping Jack ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Myrmecia pilosula)  em  are an aggressive, jumping and venomous ant species which are primarily active during the day. They prefer natural, dry woodland habitats, grasslands and rural areas, where their nests are normally low mounds built from fine gravel, soil and small pebbles, but are often difficult to find and may be present under rock. For most people, the sting will only cause a mild but painful local reaction, however about three per cent of people are allergic to the venom and can suffer from anaphylactic reactions.   p 
 p ​The Bull Ant or Inch Ant ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Myrmecia pyriformis  em ) is about an inch long, as its common name suggests. It is also an aggressive species but mainly only attacks when its nest is disturbed. It occupies a similar habitat to the Hopper Ant and its nest is usually underground and often have hidden or small entrances. The sting from a Bull Ant is similar to that of the Hopper Ant, with the risk of anaphylaxis in some victims.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Inch Ant by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p     How to manage Hopper and Bull Ants to reduce risks?   p 
 p  strong Redback Spider  strong  br The Redback Spider ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Latrodectus hasselti  em ) is a common resident within the Adelaide Hills Council district, often found in dry, inconspicuous places such as among rocks, in logs, junk-piles, sheds, or toilets and are regularly seen in the undersides of pot plants, inside rubber boots left outside and under the lips of rubbish bins. They are not aggressive spiders but will bite if their nest is disturbed although often bites are ineffective due to the spider’s small jaws. The bite from a Redback Spider can deliver a powerful venom which acts directly on the nerves, and many people are hospitalised each year. However, since antivenom has been available there have been no deaths associated with bites.   p 
 p     The females have the typical appearance of the black (occasionally brownish) body with an obvious red or orange stripe down its abdomen (back section), whereas the males spider’s body is light brown with the red stripe often much less distinct.   p 
 p     How to manage Redback Spiders to reduce risks of being bitten?   p 
 p  strong Huntsman Spider  strong   p 
 p ​The Huntsman Spider ( em data-redactor-tag="em" Latrodectus hasselti  em ) is a large, long legged and often grey to brown spider. Outside they prefer narrow spaces under loose bark of trees or rock crevices, but will sometimes venture inside houses and sheds. They are also renowned for sneaking into cars, and at times found lurking behind sun visors. To those arachnophobia types, this resembles a nightmare and car accidents can happen as a result. To others, the presence of a Huntsman Spider in the house is more of a welcome or tolerated guest, as they can be beneficial by preying upon household pests such as cockroaches and other smaller insects. However, the female can lay up to 200 eggs which can be problematic when the mother spider opens the egg sac to help her spiderlings out.   p 
 p  em Pictured: Huntsman Spider by Peter Watton  em   p 
 p Huntsman spiders rarely bite people and are more likely to run away when approached. Although bites can be painful, their venom isn't considered dangerous to humans. They can occasionally cause mild nausea and headaches, but normally the symptoms are localized pain and swelling.   p 
 p     Tips to manage Huntsman Spiders in and around the home:   p 
 p  strong Whitetail Spider  strong  br The Whitetail Spider  em data-redactor-tag="em" (Lampona cylindrata  em ) is commonly found in homes throughout Australia and in the Adelaide Hills district. The spider is has a long dark reddish to grey cigar shaped body, with dark orange-brown banded legs with a white spot at the tip of the abdomen.   p 
 p     They normally live in gardens beneath bark and rocks and in leaf litter, but also venture inside houses, and are often found in the folds of clothes left on the floor, or hiding in bedding, towels and shoes. They prey mainly on other spiders, particularly the black house spider and hunt them down rather than building their own webs. They also eat the webs of other spiders.   p 
 p     They are reported to bite humans and their bites have been implicated in causing severe skin ulceration, known medically as necrotising arachnidism, however recent studies have shown that the white tailed spider bite is probably not linked to this condition. In fact in most cases, the bite only causes a mild local reaction, including initial burning pain, then itching and skin discolouration, which usually clears up after a few weeks.   p 
 p     Tips to manage Whitetail Spiders and reduce risks of being bitten:   p 
 p     Visit the  font color="#000080"  a href="http:  www.environment.sa.gov.au managing-natural-resources plants-and-animals Living_with_wildlife" target="_blank" DEWNR website  a   font  for more information regarding ‘Living with Wildlife’ br  font color="#000080"  a href=" Resident pets-animals pests" target="_blank" Click here for information about European Wasps and Mosquitos  a   font .  p 
