 p class="skip-link__wrapper" 
         a href="#main-menu" class="skip-link visually-hidden visually-hidden--focusable" id="skip-link" Jump to navigation  a 
      p 
 p  a href="  www.enr.gov.nt.ca en content dont-feed-wildlife" Foxes or wildlife in general should not be fed  a  intentionally by humans. The Department of Environment and Natural Resources (ENR) is reminding residents and tourists that while it is always interesting to see NWT wildlife in their natural habitat, they should never be given food and it is an offense to do so under the  a href="  www.enr.gov.nt.ca en content wildlife-act-plain-language-version" NWT Wildlife Act  a  Section 65 (1). Intentionally feeding wildlife can result in a fine of $253.   p 
 p Wildlife that are intentionally fed or given access to food lose their fear of humans, leading them to become a nuisance or danger to anyone they encounter, resulting in having to destroy the animal.  strong Help Keep Wildlife Wild!  strong   p 
 p To report someone intentionally feeding wildlife, call the Report-A-Poacher hotline at: 1.866.762.2437  p 
 p For more information contact your Local Renewable Resource Officer or Regional ENR Office:  p 
 p Rabies is the most common disease affecting foxes in the NWT. Encephalitis and distemper are also fatal diseases more prevalent during years with high numbers of foxes. Many foxes are infected with a variety of internal and external parasites.  p 
 p The red fox is a member of the dog family. It has a pointed face and ears and a long, bushy tail. This small animal weighs between 3.0 to 7.0 kg and is about 100 cm long with its tail accounting for almost half this length.  p 
 p Red foxes are shy, nervous animals, which are most active at night. They have acute hearing and a keen sense of smell. They run with a quick, airy gait, leaving paw prints in a line in the snow.   p 
 p Red foxes are larger than the  a href="  www.enr.gov.nt.ca en services arctic-fox" Arctic fox  a  and live in more southern ranges. However, the red fox is an adaptable animal and some have extended their range into areas where the Arctic fox is found.  p 
 p Red fox is important to the fur industry because of its large numbers and wide distribution in the Northwest Territories (NWT).  p 
 p Red foxes range across Canada as far north as some of the Arctic islands. Higher densities are located below the treeline of the NWT. They also occur sparsely in the southern tundra.  p 
 p Normal home ranges vary between 5 and 35 km sup 2  sup . Foxes may undertake long migrations in search of food, especially in years of low prey density and high fox numbers. The wide distribution of red foxes indicates they are able to survive in a variety of habitats. They are most often found in semi-open country, such as natural clearings, river valleys, tundra and agricultural areas.  p 
