 p  noscript  br 
 img height="1" width="1" style="display:none;" alt="" src="https:  analytics.twitter.com i adsct?txn_id=l48m9&amp;p_id=Twitter"  br 
  noscript   p 
 p  em  img alt="Hounds looking for a fox’s scent in a typical fox habitat" class="caption" src="https:  s3.amazonaws.com ifaw-pantheon sites default files legacy wordpress image 02_26_16_fox.jpg" style="width: 610px; height: 343px;" title="Hounds looking for a fox’s scent in a typical fox habitat" This blog is part of a series of blogs that feature excerpts of IFAW’s report   em  a href="https:  www.ifaw.org united-kingdom our-work wildlife-trade uncovering-trail-lies" target="_blank"  em Trail of Lies  em   a  em , which is the most comprehensive study to date examining the hunting with dogs debate and the practices hunters take to undermine the ban. –The eds.  em   p 
 p It is a matter of common sense.  p 
 p If you place a bull in a china shop, no matter how much you have told him not to break anything, chances are the shop will not survive intact. Equally, if you place a pack of foxhounds in a wood or copse known to have foxes in, when you have trained these hounds to chase a fox scent, would it be a surprise if live foxes end up being chased and or killed by the hounds?  p 
 p We know the first example is a hypothetical analogy used as a cliché, but the second is not.  p 
 p It is a very real thing.  p 
 p Read the following extract from the  a href="https:  s3.amazonaws.com ifaw-pantheon sites default files legacy 2015-IFAW-Trail-of-Lies-full-report.pdf" target="_blank" Trail of Lies  a  full report if you want some empirical proof of this:  p 
 p  em (…) For the trail hunting alibi to work hunting must take place in areas where the animals the hunt used to hunt are likely to be found. Otherwise the ‘accident’ component of the activity will not occur. Do the hunts still have access to these areas? Theoretically they do. Although some landowners may have stopped giving the hunts access to their land, we believe that many still continue to allow them. For example, as outlined above, the National Trust, the Forestry Commission and the Ministry of Defence still allow hunts on their land to do trail hunting.  em   p 
 p  em However, hunts could select particular open fields or areas with a lower probability of fox or hare presence (as the drag hunts do), to show they have tried to prevent accidents. Have they done that? To answer this question we have analysed the reports the hunts themselves produce for Horse &amp; Hound magazine. This compares the geography of their accounts between hunts undertaken before and after the ban was enacted.(…)    em   p 
 p  em We made the comparison first with meets, then with geographical locations within meets (specific places mentioned in reports where the hunt ended up going after the meet started), and finally comparing types of locations within meets.  em   p 
 p  em Most hunts listing or reporting meets in these issues of Horse &amp; Hound had not reported geographic locations (other than the meet venue) both pre-ban and post-ban. However, the following table shows that when hunts had given geographic locations in similar areas both pre-ban and post-ban, we found that 31% of post-ban locations matched pre-ban locations. These are locations that the hunts must know, after decades of hunting in their countries, are good places to find foxes or hares:  em   p 
 p  em The fact that a third of geographical locations mentioned in the 15 post-ban meets match pre-ban locations, suggests that hunts, while trail hunting, would often go to the exact same places as before the ban when looking for live quarry. (…)  em   p 
 p  em The analysis becomes more interesting if we consider the type of location where foxes are likely to be found. In traditional hunting, when the hounds are drawn to find the scent of a fox, they are normally sent to woodland, hedges, gorse, and similar habitat normally known as coverts. Indeed, the old Manual of British Rural Sports states “No part of the huntsman’s duties is so often performed in a slovenly manner, and yet none is of more consequence than the drawing of coverts (…) one of the more beautiful sights in fox-hunting is the perfect drawing of a pack of hounds (…) but in the Haythrop country some of the best coverts are merely willow-beds under the sides of the hills” (  em  em Stonehenge, 1867  em  em ).  em   p 
 p  em (…) We looked for geographical locations mentioned in the Horse &amp; Hound hunting reports with names or descriptions that suggest they would be good places to find foxes. (…)  em   p 
 p  em Comparing these locations in reports published before and after the ban, we found that, surprisingly, descriptions of good locations to find foxes were more commonly found during the ban period (i.e. the trail hunting period) than before. Indeed 26% of the geographical locations found in reports from 2010 onwards describe good locations to find foxes, while this value is only 19% in pre ban reports.  em   p 
 p  em The following table shows the percentages broken down per type of words (all types are consistently showing higher percentages during the ban period).  em   p 
 p  em (…) Because we have not looked at all possible magazine issues we should not automatically conclude that during trail hunting hunts go more often to places where foxes live than before the ban. There are many factors that may influence the sort of information the hunts write in their reports.  em   p 
 p  em However, what the data strongly suggests is that it is very unlikely that they go to such places less often. This confirms that the trail hunters’ hounds will have plenty of opportunity to find foxes on purpose or by designed ‘accidents’, depending on which type of trail hunting MO they use.  em   p 
 p So, under the excuse of attempting to replicate the exact conditions of hunting before the ban, trail hunts continue to send their foxhounds in areas where they know foxes live, continue to train their hounds to follow fox scents, and then if a live fox is caught, they just claim that it was an accident, and get away with it.  p 
 p Drag hunts do not do any of this, and this is why you do not see accidental chases of foxes in drag hunting. Only trail hunts use their activities as false alibies to avoid prosecution.  p 
 p It all makes sense, does it not?  p 
 p  strong --JC  strong   p 
 p  strong England and Wales residents  strong   strong  a href="https:  e-activist.com ea-action action?ea.client.id=1720&amp;ea.campaign.id=47174&amp;ms=KONDG160201060&amp;cid=701F0000001INzs" target="_blank" ask your PCC  a   strong   strong to ensure the Hunting Ban is properly enforced.  strong   p 
 p Jordi Casamitjana was IFAW’s Campaigns and Enforcement Manager in the UK office between July 2012 and August 2016. He worked mainly on domestic issues, such as the Hunting with Dogs campaign and managed the team of Wildlife Crime Investigators that go out monitoring UK hunts to gather...
  
    p 
 p 		 span style="font-size: 14px;line-height: 1.3em;"  i Elephants: A way forward  i   span   p 
 p    p 
 p class="footer-book" International Fund for Animal Welfare | 87-90 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7UD | United Kingdom br 
	© IFAW is a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (company number 2701278) and a registered charity (number 1024806)  p 
 p class="footer-med"  a href=" united-kingdom our-work privacy-policy" style="font-size:14px;" Privacy policy  a  |  a href=" united-kingdom node 11447" style="font-size:14px;" Cookie policy  a  br 
	Copyright 2019|  a href=" united-kingdom our-work terms-use" Terms of use  a   p 
