 p The San Joaquin (SJ) kit fox was once a thriving species in the 1930s, making their home in native grasslands of the Central Valley. In 1967 the federal government listed them as an endangered species and in 1971 California also listed them as threatened. SJ kit foxes play an important role in the ecosystem, but because they are adapting to changes in the landscape that are caused by urban development, sometimes humans find themselves in conflict with this typically shy and fearful animal. The cities of Bakersfield, Taft and Coalinga are unique because kit foxes have become established in those urban settings.   p 
 p SJ kit foxes are hunters of insects, rodents and rabbits, but will take advantage of whatever is available including garbage and pet food. When kit foxes have easy access to trash and pet food, their natural behavior changes. They often lose caution and fear of people and urban environments exposing them to dangers from sports nets, poisons and vehicles.   p 
 p Because of federal and state endangered species laws, it is unlawful for public to handle or trap a SJ kit fox that is causing conflict in an urban environment. Well-intentioned attempts to do so may result in injury or even death to the fox. Help prevent deadly conflicts for these beautiful and rare wild animals:   p 
 p   strong If you find or have information about a trapped, injured, or distressed San Joaquin kit fox, please contact:  strong   br 
CDFW Central Region, (559) 243-4005 ext.133   p 
 p class="tagline" Please respect and protect wild animals.  br 
Keep them wild.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;" rel="text-align: center;"   span style="font-size: 1.1em;"  a href="https:  www.wildlife.ca.gov Explore Organization OCEO.aspx"  strong 
	Office of Communications, Education and Outreach  strong   a   span  br 
	1416 9th Street, 12th Floor, Sacramento, CA 95814 br 
	Mailing: P.O. Box 944209, Sacramento, CA 94244-2090 br 
	(916) 322-8911
  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  img style="text-align: center;" src=" portals 0 Images OCEO KeepMeWild kmw-kit-fox-range-map.png" alt="San Joaquin kit fox range map"  br 
San Joaquin kit fox range   p 
 p  strong These species are often mistaken for kit foxes:  strong   p 
 p style="text-align: center; display: inline-block; margin: 1px;"  img src="https:  www.wildlife.ca.gov Portals 0 Images OCEO KeepMeWild kmw-coyote-not-kit-fox.jpg" alt="coyote"  br 
Coyote  p 
 p style="text-align: center; display: inline-block; margin: 1px;"  img src="https:  www.wildlife.ca.gov Portals 0 Images OCEO KeepMeWild kmw-red-fox-not-kit-fox.jpg" alt="red fox"  br 
Red fox  p 
 p style="text-align: center; display: inline-block; margin: 1px;"  img src="https:  www.wildlife.ca.gov Portals 0 Images OCEO KeepMeWild kmw-gray-fox-not-kit-fox.jpg" alt="gray fox"  br 
Gray fox  p 
