 p  strong Description  strong  span : Typically, red foxes are a reddish color with white under parts and a white-tipped tail. They have slender legs and feet that are often black.  There are 2 color variants of red foxes.  The “cross fox” is mostly yellowish or grayish brown.  The “silver fox” is blackish with a variable amount of white in the coat color. All color phases usually retain the black legs and white-tipped tail.  span  br  strong Geographic  strong  strong  Range  strong  span : Red foxes live in most of Canada and the United States. They are quite rare in the western U.S. but, they are abundant throughout Minnesota.  span  br  strong Status  strong  span : Common.  span  br  strong Length  strong  span :  Approx. 3 ft. with a 13-inch tail.  span  br  strong Height  strong  span : 15 – 16 in.  span  br  strong Weight  strong  span :  7 –15 lbs.  span  strong    strong  br  strong Habitat  strong  span : Red foxes occupy forest-field edges and use open areas.  They usually avoid dense forests and can be found in suburbs, parks or golf courses.  span  br  strong Typical Diet  strong  span : Red foxes are opportunistic although, they usually eat small mammals such as rodents, rabbits and squirrels.  They also feed on carrion, snakes, crayfish, salamanders, berries, nuts and seeds.  span  br  strong Similar Species  strong  span : Gray fox (  span  em Urocyon cinereoargenteus  em  span ).  span  br  strong Special Notes  strong  span :  span  br  span -Red foxes are most active at dawn and dusk.  span  br  span -They are generally solitary hunters.  span  br  span -Red foxes cache uneaten food.  span  br  span -The male stays with his mate until the young disperse in late summer.  span  br  span -Breeding season is between January and mid-March.  span  br  span -The gestation period is 51-54 days.  span  br  span -There are 5 – 10 pups in an average.  span   p 
 p class="text-align-center"  strong 22830 Sunrise Rd NE, Stacy, MN 55079 - 651.464.3993  strong   p 
 p class="text-align-center" Site Development by  a target="_blank" href="http:  www.brookmaier.com" Brook Maier  a  br All Right Reserved 2015-2018  p 
