 p class="article-description" itemprop="description" Though they are the exact same species as the Red Fox, these particular foxes are distinct for their silver and black fur.  p 
 p Though it is a fact not many people are aware of, the silver fox is actually the
exact same species as the  a href="https:  www.worldatlas.com articles red-fox-animals-of-north-america.html" target="_blank" red fox  a ,  strong  em Vulpes vulpes  em   strong . It gets its name from its fur coloration,
which ranges from a bold silver to almost completely black. Like red foxes,
silver foxes’ eyes also take on a golden yellow color as they mature. The weight
and length of these foxes can range greatly depending upon their respective geographic locations. On average, as adults they weigh 11 to 15 pounds (5 to 7 kilograms), their length from head to
tail can reach up to 40 inches (1 meter) long. The silver fox is part of the
 strong  em Canidae  em   strong  Family, making it a close relative of dogs and  a href="https:  www.worldatlas.com articles gray-wolf-facts-animals-of-north-america.html" target="_blank" wolves  a .  p 
 p Although it is under the Order  strong  em Carnivora  em   strong , this can be misleading in terms of their dietary habits. In fact, foxes are
omnivores, meaning they will eat both meat (including fresh kills and carrion) and plant foods. Their diet mainly
consists of rodents, rabbits, insects, birds, berries, and other plants, depending on location. When
they have an abundance of food, they will store their food in caches and save
them for harder times. Foxes' proclivities for stocking up food and the flexibility of their diets are part of the reason why foxes have
been so successful across different parts of the world. Foxes can run into trouble with
humans when they cross paths, as foxes have no trouble working their way through
fences to get at livestock. In urban settings, they can be seen rummaging
through garbage bins, or even eating pet food that has been left outside.  p 
 p The silver fox, along with the red fox, are members of the most widely dispersed species from the Order  strong  em Carnivora  em   strong  in the world. Their diaspora spans across North America, Europe, Asia, and even  a href=" webimage countrys oceania au.htm" target="_top" Australia  a . Foxes have proven themselves to be very versatile, have found ways to survive in all types of environments, and are even considered a pest in some parts of the world. Part of their territory expansion has been due to human introductions, so that they could partake in fox hunts in new areas. Another reason is due to the extermination of their predatory competitors. Although they are considered a species of "Least Concern" by the IUCN Red List, they do suffer from losses of habitat and exploitation through fur farming and the fur trade. The latter is especially for silver foxes, whose pelts are highly prized for their unique coloration.  p 
 p Silver foxes are mostly solitary animals, and are semi-territorial. Within their claimed territories lie their dens and food caches. Unlike their other canine relatives, foxes cannot produce barks and howls like dogs and wolves do. Instead, they can produce a wide range of unique sounds including a high pitched warning bark, “screams”, and snuffles, though their most distinct noise is a called a “gekker”, and it sounds like a chuckle. Foxes gekker when they are excited or nervous, so they may gekker during play or when they are defending their territory against intruders. During the winter, foxes are known to use their tails as blankets to keep themselves warm.   p 
 p Due to their wide geographical range, the silver fox’s
mating season varies greatly. Vixens may mate with multiple males, but in the
end she will form a monogamous pair with only one ultimate choice. They will only breed once a
year, and their gestation period lasts a little under 2 months. The number of
pups can range greatly, but the average is 5 kits per litter. The kits do not
open their eyes until 2 weeks after their births, and will take up to 5 weeks to
leave their dens. The family unit will stay together until autumn, and when the
kits reach maturity at 10 months they will leave to find territory of their own. br   p 
 p class="wa_d_present" On WorldAtlas.com  p 
 p All maps, graphics, flags, photos and original descriptions © 2019 worldatlas.com  p 
