 p Lemmings are the staple food for Arctic foxes. However, they are quite opportunistic, and will eat whatever is available out on the frozen tundra, even if it means scavenging leftovers from other predators, such as  a href="http:  www.defenders.org polar-bear basic-facts" polar bears  a !  p 
 p Arctic fox populations range in the hundred thousands, but fluctuate with the available lemming population.  p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p Arctic foxes change the color of their fur with the seasons. In winter they are white to blend in with the snow, while in the summer they change to brown!  p 
 p The Arctic fox is found throughout the entire Arctic tundra, through Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Russia, Norway, Scandinavia, and even Iceland, where it is the only native land mammal.  p 
 p The tundra is not an easy place to live. It is barren, rocky, and without much vegetation. Arctic foxes are extremely well adapted to their frigid homes, and have secured a niche where they make the best out of almost any situation.  p 
 p One of the most unique and interesting behaviors of Arctic foxes is how they hunt. They have incredible hearing, aided by their wide, front-facing ears, which allow them to locate the precise position of their prey beneath the snow.  p 
 p When the Arctic fox hears its next meal under the snow-pack, it leaps into the air and pounces, breaking through the layer of snow right onto the prey beneath.  p 
 p Mating season for Arctic foxes usually lasts from early September to early May. Litters are usually between 5-9 pups, though much larger litters aren't uncommon. Arctic foxes usually mate for life, and both mother and father help raise the pups.  p 
 p  strong Size:  strong  Arctic foxes can range from 2.3 to 3.5 feet (.76 - 1.1m) in length, in addition to their 12-inch (.3m) tail. At the shoulder, they stand around 9 inches to 12 inches (.2 - .3m) tall.  p 
 p  strong Weight:   strong Arctic foxes range from 6.5 to 21 lbs (2.9 - 95kg). Female Arctic foxes tend to be smaller than males.  p 
 p  strong Lifespan:  strong  Usually around 3 to 6 years.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
