 p Had it not been for some early pioneers and their
  packs of well-trained hunting hounds, the red fox
  might never have found its way to Texas. Not a native
  species, it was imported to provide sport and training
  for fox-hounds. The red fox's strong, streamlined
  body is perfect for running, and it seems to enjoy
  a good chase. It is capable of sudden bursts of speed
  that have been clocked up to forty-five miles per
  hour, and it can run in front of a pack of baying
  foxhounds all night.   p 
 p The entire red fox population of Central Texas probably
  descended from forty foxes released between 1890
  and 1895 near Waco. Offspring from these, plus an
  additional sixty imports, soon spread into the surrounding
  counties. Releases in other parts of the state further
  increased the red fox's range. Now it can be found
  in the eastern, north-central, and Trans-Pecos areas
  of the state. Highest populations occur in north-central
  Texas.   p 
 p Its strong, streamlined body is perfect for running, and the red fox is capable of sudden bursts of speed.  p 
 p Early pioneers were not the only ones who recognized
  the red fox's value for dog-training purposes. According
  to a short item published in a 1959 issue of the
  Texas Game and Fish magazine, thirty-eight red foxes
  were trapped in Central Texas that year and shipped
  to East Texas to be housed in artificial dens and
  trained to run hounds. Cages were placed at the entrances
  of these artificial dens until the foxes were established
  in their new homes. Then the cages were removed so
  the foxes could roam free and get to know their surroundings.
  The next step in the training program was to introduce
  the hounds. When the fox left its den at night, a
  lantern was placed at the entrance to keep the fox
  from re-entering. The dogs were released, and the
  fox was forced to make two or three rounds of the
  area with the dogs in pursuit. Then the lantern was
  removed, and the fox was allowed to enter its den.
  After a few training sessions, the foxes learned
  what was expected of them, and the lanterns no longer
  were needed to keep them out of their dens. They
  even seemed to enjoy giving the hounds the run-around.
  Offspring of these foxes may be giving East Texas
  hounds the run-around today, but the foxes are on
  their own now.   p 
 p The red fox is a member of the dog family (canid),
  but it still displays quite a few catlike (feline)
  characteristics. The young hiss and spit like kittens,
  and adults can make short mewing cries and high-pitched
  screams. The fox also can assume the cat's threat
  posture, standing with back arched and fur erect.
  This display may be followed with a broad-side, stiff-legged
  charge. Canid eyes normally have round pupils, but
  the red fox has elliptical (vertical-slit) pupils
  like those of a cat. Its sensitive face whiskers
  also are proportionately longer than those of other
  canids, and its feet are more catlike. Its flexible
  paws have small toe and foot pads as well as partially
  retractable front claws. The rest of its foot is
  soft and covered with hair that may make it more
  touch-sensitive during the fox's catlike stalk. Its
  daggerlike canine teeth, short muzzle, and strong
  jaw muscles allow it to make a killing bite on its
  prey.   p 
 p Canids and felids usually use distinctly different
  hunting strategies, but according to J. David Henry,
  a biologist who has spent six years studying red
  foxes in Canada, this fox hunts the same kind of
  prey species as cats, and its hunting habits are
  more feline than canine. Hunting methods of dogs
  are based not on stealth, but on detection, and scent
  plays an important role. Dogs often hunt in packs,
  approaching their prey openly and relying on endurance
  to run it down. If they get close enough, they repeatedly
  bite the prey's vulnerable rump and hind legs. Weakened
  by the wounds or chase, the prey is pulled down and
  killed by the pack. Cats are solitary hunters, relying
  on a surprise attack, combined with a burst of speed,
  to take their prey. The red fox also is a solitary
  hunter, perhaps because its prey usually is only
  big enough to feed one. It is a skilled predator
  and adapts its method of hunting to the type of prey
  it is stalking at the time.   p 
 p The red fox displays quite a few of the breed's feline characteristics: elliptical, rather than round, eye pupils; sensitive face whiskers proportionately longer than canines'; and catlike feet with partially retractable front claws.  p 
 p Insects offer little challenge to the fox's hunting
  abilities. If one is spotted on the ground, the fox
  merely walks over, picks the insect up by mouth,
  and eats it. If the insect hops or flies, the fox
  searches for it by nosing into the vegetation or
  tapping around with a forefoot (catlike) to cause
  the insect to move. The fox then tries to grab it
  by mouth. Birds and squirrels are hunted by a stop-start
  method. Anyone who has ever watched a cat stalk a
  bird will recognize this hunting technique. The fox
  synchronizes its movements with those of the prey
  to minimize visual danger clues and noise warnings.
  Any movement noises made by the advancing fox coincide
  with those of the prey. When the prey looks away
  or begins to eat, the fox advances in a crouched
  position with its belly almost touching the ground.
  This advance may be made at a slow stalking pace,
  a trot, or a gallop. The fox never takes its eyes
  off the prey. When the prey looks up to check its
  surroundings, the fox freezes and remains motionless,
  sometimes in mid-stride, until the prey resumes feeding.
  At the end of the stalk, the fox makes a horizontal
  jump and attempts to catch the bird or squirrel in
  its mouth.   p 
 p Rabbits are hunted by a method that combines both
  feline and canine techniques. When the prey is sighted,
  the fox crouches and begins its cat-like stalk. If
  the rabbit senses danger and runs, the fox immediately
  switches to the canine method of hunting. It pursues
  the rabbit with a bounding gallop and attempts to
  bite the legs or rump. If the fox manages to get
  a bite hold, it pulls the rabbit off its feet and
  both animals may collapse on the ground. When the
  fox regains its footing, it stands on the prey to
  pin it to the ground and then bites its neck and or
  head to kill it.  p 
 p When the red fox is hunting small animals that rely
  on sound to detect danger, it is extremely careful
  to minimize movement noise. The approaching stalk
  is made slowly, and the fox tests each step for a
  possible sound warning. The forefoot is put down
  lightly and may even be moved a couple of times before
  the fox is satisfied that when it shifts its weight
  to that foot no noise will result. The hind foot
  is then advanced to the exact spot where the forefoot
  was previously located. Since visual warnings are
  not as critical for this type of prey, the fox may
  lift its head and cock it from side to side to locate
  the prey's exact location. When the fox has advanced
  within striking distance, it crouches low and then
  lunges through the air in an arc, trying to pin the
  prey to the ground as it lands. This lunge usually
  varies from two to six feet, but the fox can cover
  as much as fifteen feet from a standing start. Hunting
  on the downhill side of a trail increases the lunge,
  allowing the fox to stay airborne up to twenty-five
  feet.   p 
 p Red foxes are opportunistic feeders. This means
  they will eat whatever is available. Eggs, carrion,
  berries, and garbage are eaten as readily as live
  prey.   p 
 p Young red fox remain inside the den for at least a month. they then venture outside to wrestle and fight playfully with littermates over food.  p 
 p The breeding season for the red fox in Texas begins
  early in the year, and the shrill squalls of the
  female (vixen) bring answering barks from any nearby
  males. If more than one male responds to her call,
  they compete for her attention. The winner of the
  resulting fight gets her. The pair then must find
  a suitable den and get it ready for the young that
  will be born about fifty-one days after mating takes
  place. Usually the den is an underground burrow,
  a crevice in a rocky outcrop, or a cavity under some
  boulders. Occasionally the pair will take over the
  burrow of some other animal, such as a badger, and
  remodel it to suit themselves.   p 
 p Litters may vary from four to fifteen, but the most
  common size is five or six. The pups, which look
  like kittens, are dark brown or black and have a
  white tip on their tails. Their eyes open in nine
  days, but for at least a month they remain inside
  the den, where the female gives them constant attention.
  Since she must remain with them for the first few
  weeks, the male brings food to her and stands guard
  over the den. If danger approaches, he warns the
  family with a bark and then tries to lure the intruder
  away. When the pups grow older they are fed at the
  mouth of the den, venturing outside to wrestle and
  fight with their littermates over the food. But whether
  they are fighting over food or just rolling and tumbling
  together in play, they are amazingly quiet. The only
  sound may be a small squeak of protest when one of
  them gets too rough. During the next four months
  the young spend most of their time outside the den
  being taught how to find, stalk, and catch live prey.
  They also are taught to eat grapes, berries, and
  other fallen fruit.   p 
 p In the fall the family separates, and the adult-size
  young must find a place to live. This can be a very
  difficult experience since other foxes will not allow
  the young intruders into their territories. During
  their search the young may fall victim to predators,
  automobiles, or humans. Only the resourceful ones
  survive to take their place in our state's complex
  wildlife community.  p 
 p class="smalltext" Ilo
      Hiller br 
  1990 – Red Foxes:  em Introducing Mammals to
  Young Naturalists.  em  The Louise
  Lindsey Merrick Texas Environment
  Series, No. 10, pp. 26-30.
  Texas A&amp;M University
  Press, College Station.  p 
