 p 
  p 
 p We begin with this weeks’ top news: Captive beluga whales will be released into a large seaside sanctuary in Iceland, Cuvier’s beaked whale was shown to be the deepest diving whale, Donald Trump, Jr. continues his big game hunting activities, overweight dogs can die 2.5 years earlier than ideal weight dogs, a beagle adopts a possum (cute video alert!), and more.  p 
 p Then, Peter welcomes Josie Du Toit, Director at  a href="https:  vervet.za.org " Vervet Monkey Foundation  a , which is based in South Africa. The Foundation operates a lively rescue and rehabilitation center with the aid of volunteers from around the world. Their wonderful video projects go by the name of The Vervet Forest.  p 
 p And its National Hippopotamus Day! Hippos are related to whales, can outrun humans, lack sweat glands, and are endangered due to hunting and habitat loss.  p 
 p Finally, Peter welcomes Seth Hutson with  a href="https:  www.animalbehaviorcollege.com " Animal Behavior College  a  who gives practical advice on starting successful pet fostering programs.  p 
 p The post  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.animalstodayradio.com 2019 02 27 animals-today-february-23-2019-hot-animal-news-helping-vervet-monkeys-hippo-alert-guidance-on-animal-fostering " Animals Today February 23, 2019: Hot animal news. Helping vervet monkeys. Hippo alert! Guidance on animal fostering  a  appeared first on  a rel="nofollow" href="https:  www.animalstodayradio.com" Animals Today Radio  a .  p 
 p class="stats" 
132 episodes available.
A new episode about every
8 days
averaging 41 mins duration
 span .  span   p 
 p What if radio played only the shows you care about, when you want? Player FM is scanning the web for high-quality podcast content right now. Try us out on any web browser — desktop, mobile, or tablet.  p 
 p    p 
 p class="action-text" 
Start listening to Animals Today Radio on your phone right now with Player FM's free mobile app, the best podcasting experience on both iPhone and Android. Your subcriptions will sync with your account on this website too. Podcast smart and easy with the app that refuses to compromise.
  p 
 p Google Play reviews:  p 
