 p Here are our top picks for hedgehog cages. You can visit our reviews of these cages  a href="http:  hedgehogged.com best-hedgehog-cages " here  a .  p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Here we offering is a Large Cat Cage Playpen with Benches and Hammock. This Super Three-level space-saving Playpen is perfect for outdoor or indoor use. With the ladders and benches, it provides loads of extra fun for your pet. And with the comfortable pad and hammock, your lovely pet will surely en span class="asa2-read-more-target" joy the comfy feeling and would be willing to stay in the playpen even when alone. Keeping your cat pet play happily and enjoy the interesting and pet-friendly indoor environment.  br   br  b Features:  b   br * Powder-coated Black Vein iron.  br * Rectangular Tubes constructed Main Frame for more steady.  br * Sturdy metal wire for a strong cat playpen structure.  br * 2 Wire Front Doors for convenient access.  br * 2 Ladders for more exercise for your peppy kitty.  br * Spacious interior including 2 resting Benches.  br * Slide-out plastic Base Tray for easy cleaning.  br * 4 durable Swivel Casters for easy mobility.  br * One Soft Hammock which cats favorite for Free Gift!  br   br  b Dimensions' Details:  b   br * Overall Size of Cat Cage(w caster): 35-2 5"L x 22"W x 51"H  br * Door Size: 15-1 4"W x 15"H  br * Bench Size: 20"L x 7"W  br * Hammock Size: 24"L x 14-3 4"W  br * Ladder Size: 23-1 4"L x 7-1 4"W  br * Inner Diameter of Bar Spacing: approx. 2cm  br   br  b Gentle Reminder:  b   br This cat cage playpen is designed for cats all day play and live. Cats like staying at high place when resting or sleeping. You can place a soft pad (Not included in this item) on the highest bench near the hammock, so that your cat can snooze on where he she like. Cats dislike their bed to be dirty or messing, so Feeding Bowls (Not included in this item) should be placed on the second floor while the toilet should be placed on the ground.  br   br  b Package Contents:  b   br * 1x Cat Cage Main Frame  br * 2x Benches  br * 2x Ladders  br * 1x ABS Tray  br * 1x Soft Hammock as Free Gift  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Product Details Brand: Favorite Dimension: Oversize 17.5"L x 11.5"W x 9"H, Front door 4"L x 4.5"W; Gap 3 8"; Water bottle 125ml; Wheel diameter 6"; Food Bowl diameter 2.5" Material: Made in durable and washable plastic case with metal wire bars Color: Light blue Recommendation: Ideal for puny hamste span class="asa2-read-more-target" ndation: Ideal for puny hamster &amp; small mice  br Unique Design: The flyline sparkle hamster cage is suitable for average sized syrian hamsters and golden hamsters but can also contain all types of dwarf hamsters, Chinese hamsters, most breeds of mice (mouse) and similar sized animals   span   p 
 p  b Descriptions  b   br Favorite small animal habitat house is feature designed especially made for dwarf hamster extra small pets. It is much more suitable for small type or young hamster &amp; mice to train and develop right habit. The mesh clean environment would keep fresh air.  br   br The Roll-A-Coaster comes with a unique wheel that spins and rolls along the track, allowing small pets to quietly glide back and forth across cage in all directions. This habitat is as fun for owners to watch as it is for pets to play in.The Extreme Habitat also comes with a food dish and water bottle for your convenience. Front wire door allow you to easily access your pet at any time. Ideal for small mice, dwarf hamster and gerbils. 3 8" wire spacing provides security for your pets.   p 
 p  b Features  b   br Improved detachable design make assembly easier and clean a breeze  br Enhanced door lock offer easy access and added security  br 1 Water bottle &amp; 1 feeding dish &amp; 1 exercise wheel are included  br Coated chew-proof wire and stain-resistant plastic  br Deep plastic base to keep bedding tidy   p 
 p  b About US  b   br At Favorite brand, we are passionate about creating innovative behavioral containment and lifestyle product solutions to give you more great moments with your pets.   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Large living room for your nice rabbit, less volume for you! The habitat Krolik has an innovative construction with a complete knock down system and bottom with no flares. Sold in an extra slim package, this is an friendly product reducing transport volume and taking very little space when not used. span class="asa2-read-more-target"  The model Krolik 160, new arrival in the range, is really large and comfortable, presents a sturdy structure made from wire net and a plastic bottom. The cage shows a useful extension with a removable separation grill, ideal as nesting area for your small pet. Fully accessorized, Krolik 160 is complete with rabbit house with steps and bowl, hay feeder and drinking bottle. For easy maintenance, there are useful opening front doors; the base, besides, can also be separated from the wire mesh. Choose the model in compliance with your pet's size.  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" 【Color】: multi-color (random distribution) 【Specification】: trumpet: 14 * 14cm (for hamsters, bear with) not fit for squirrels, honey bags, hedgehogs, rabbits, etc. 【Product specifications】: Pet trumpet 15 * 15 * 15 (hedgehog, Golden Squirrel, hamster); not fits(devil, snow squirrel, fat hedgehog, g span class="asa2-read-more-target" uinea pig); M size: 20 * 20 * 20 cm (devil, snow squirrel, fat hedgehog, guinea pig); Squirrel, squid, hedgehog, rabbit, dragon cat sugar glider; Sugar Glider; petaurus breviceps  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Material;fleece+durable canvas+nylon fabric Size:Length 7.8"*Width 6"*Height 6" Color:sent by random Pet Takeout Kit for small pets,effectively prevent the invasion of the cold,so that your pet would like to stay in the bag inside. It also could be a warm hamster bed,with fleece mat inside.Keep your span class="asa2-read-more-target" inside.Keep your pet warm in the winter . br  With two pothook on the top,could be huang in the cage. br  With two kinds of mat.One is nylon mat which is for summer,the other is super soft fleece mat which is for winter. br  With a Pet mat on the button,make the house more stable.  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" The Critter Nation Double Unit (model 162) small animal cage by MidWest Homes for Pets provides the ultimate habitat for a variety of small animals including Rats, Chinchillas, Ferrets, Dagus and etc... The double unit Critter Nation creates the spacious living area your pet requires to thrive and t span class="asa2-read-more-target" he 1 2 " horizontal wire spacing allows pets to fulfill their instinct to climb &amp; explore in a secure environment. Each double unit Critter Nation cage comes equipped with two ramps and ramp covers, two resting shelves and two easy to remove base pans for easy cleaning. We included full-width double doors that provide maximum accessibility for easy cleaning and feeding. The wide expansive shelf and full-width plastic pan floor provide a generous play area for your Ferret   Chinchilla   Rat   Dagu and helps to prevent dangerous falls. Designed with customer convenience in mind, we've included "critter-proof" dual-locking door latches that provide a secure, easy one-handed operation. Shelves include removable plastic trays for easy cleaning and are height adjustable so you can tailor the Critter   Small Animal cage to your pet's needs. The Critter Nation has multiple attaching points for adding hammocks, tubes, toys and other accessories that are sold separately. Constructed from sturdy square tube frame and strong wire metal the Critter Nation also has an attractive gray-quartz hammer tone finish that is sure to blend with any decor. If you wish to add onto your Critter Nation cage, please take a look at the Critter Nation Add-On Unit (model 163) and be sure to check out our available Ferret Nation   small animal accessories to spruce up your Critter Nation as well! MidWest Homes for Pets stands behind the quality of our products with a 1 Year Manufacturer's Warranty. If you have any questions about our dog crates our customer service department would be glad to help you. MidWest customer service can be contacted at: 1-800-428-8560, available 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Monday - Friday.  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Prevue Pet Products Small Animal Cage with Stand is ideal for a variety of small animals including rabbits and guinea pigs. Two large doors, one on the top and one on the side, allow you to easily access your precious pet. Tubular steel stand sits on casters so cage can easily be moved from room to  span class="asa2-read-more-target" room or even from indoors to outdoors. Non-toxic powder coated finish cleans up quickly while the extra deep 6-1 2-inch plastic pan contains mess. Our Small Animal Cage with Stand is Coco Brown with White mesh, includes a shelf plus platform, and measures 33-1 2-inch long, 20-1 2-inch wide, 33-inch high with 15 16-inch wire spacing.  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" Ware Manufacturing's ready to assemble Chew Proof Small Animal High Rise converts any 10 gallon aquarium to an easy to view multi-level home for small pets. It has a well ventilated fresh air design and comes with spring locks and safe mesh floors and ramps. Made of durable powder coated wire that i span class="asa2-read-more-target" s chew proof, this Animal High Rise will be durable enough to last and the perfect safe home for your small pet. Quick to assemble and easy to clean this Animal High Rise features an easy access roof top door making cleaning a breeze. Ware Manufacturing's Chew Proof Small Animal High Rise is the perfect choice for a easy and safe home for your small pet.  span   p 
 p class="asa2-read-more-wrap" This 37'' 4 Level Indoor Ferret Cage keep your pets feel happy and safe, for it promotes health and longevity in your furry friends. It is suitable for small animals such as rabbits, ferrets, hamsters, guinea pigs. It provides ample space for living and room for activities, so they can get physical  span class="asa2-read-more-target" and mental stimulation provided by this cage. Our product is designed with healthy concept to care about your pets' well-being. It is built to keep them safe, secure and active. It is designed as foldable cage for storage and carrying, without occupying much space and the bottom tray can be pulled out to be cleaned easily. It is also easy to move and transport with 4 universal wheels. Friendly design to avoid pinching and gaps to get caught on or stuck in. br  br  br  b Specifications:  b  br Material：Iron br Overall Dimension: 25 x 17 x 36.5'' (LxWxH) br Door Size: 10.6 x 9'' (LxW) br Floor Size: 16 x 6'' (LxW) br Stairs Size: 12 x 4.5'' (LxW) br Bottom Tray Size: 24 x 17 x 2'' (LxWxH) br Gap between the Bars: 7.7 x 0.8'' (LxW) (Left &amp; Right) br Gap between the Bars: 7.3 x 0.8'' (LxW) (Up &amp; Down) br G.W.: 26 Lb br Free Gift: 1 x Water Bottle,1 x Feeder  br  br  b Package List:  b  br  br 1 x Ferret Cage br 1 x Instruction br 1 x Feeder br 1 x Water Bottle  span   p 
 p    p 
 p Hedgehogged is a place for hedgehog lovers and owners to shop hedgehog gifts and things as well as learn more about hedgehogs! Thanks for stopping by. 🙂  p 
 p 
	 label Email address:   label 
	 input type="email" name="EMAIL" placeholder="Your email address" required 
  p 
 p 
	 input type="submit" value="Sign up" 
  p 
 p  b Error: Access Token is not valid or has expired. Feed will not update.  b  br  span  This error message is only visible to WordPress admins  span   p 
 p There's an issue with the Instagram Access Token that you are using. Please obtain a new Access Token on the plugin's Settings page. br If you continue to have an issue with your Access Token then please see  a href="https:  smashballoon.com my-instagram-access-token-keep-expiring " target="_blank" rel="noopener" this FAQ  a  for more information.  p 
 p  script async src="  pagead2.googlesyndication.com pagead js adsbygoogle.js"   script  br 
 !-- Hedgehogged Sidebar --  br 
 ins class="adsbygoogle" style="display:block" data-ad-client="ca-pub-1137608049791378" data-ad-slot="7191998424" data-ad-format="auto" data-full-width-responsive="true"   ins  br 
 script 
(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
  script   p 
 p  em Hedgehogged is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.  em   p 
 p  i All data and information provided on this site is for informational purposes only. You should always seek the advice of an expert or conduct further research before making any decisions online for purchasing hedgehog items and following hedgehog facts. I try my best to keep this website updated, but it could be inaccurate and should only be used as a starting point for your research.  i  br 
  p 
