 p They are tiny animals with cute faces. They’re covered in quills. They roll into prickly balls when they are scared. The ideal pet?  p 
 p Hedgehogs are steadily growing in popularity across the United States, despite laws in at least six states banning or restricting them as pets.  p 
 p Breeders say the trend is partly fueled by the fact that hedgehogs require less maintenance than dogs and cats, and because they emit little odor — in sharp contrast with rodents and rabbits. They are largely hypoallergenic and are solitary, making them ideal for those with a busy lifestyle.  p 
 p “A hedgehog can hang out all day while you are at work, you can come home, hang out with it for a couple of hours or, you know, put it away,” said Massachusetts-based hedgehog breeder Jennifer Crespo.  p 
 p Crespo’s 4-year-old son, Wyatt, sat on the sofa in their home recently, his arm wrapped around the neck of a German shepherd named Ares while an African pygmy hedgehog named Jambalaya clambered across his legs.  p 
 p Veterinarian Paul Sedlacek, owner of the Animal Clinic of Morris Plains, treats exotic animals as part of his clientele. “We receive referrals from a large area of New Jersey and see a hedgehog every week or two,” he said.  p 
 p Sedlacek said hedgehogs live for about four to six years. “They make very interesting, interactive pets,” he said. “They need interaction and if they are not socialized, you’ll need gloves to handle them because they can get pretty spiny.”  p 
 p He said the type of owners typically fall into two categories: children who want a pocket pet and those in their 20s who want something unusual as a pet.  p 
 p He recommends doing research to learn how to handle, exercise, interact and feed hedgehogs. Owners can give such treats as earthworms, mealworms and wax worms as positive reinforcement to help with the taming process. They also eat a variety of fruits and vegetable as part of their diet.  p 
 p If other pets are in the household, owners should be careful as dogs and cats can be a threat. “When they are frightened, they ball up, so make sure to supervise play sessions,” Sedlacek said  p 
 p The attraction to the animals may have started with a video game — “Sonic” is a blue hedgehog who runs at supersonic speeds and curls into a ball to attack its enemies — but it has grown through people sharing pictures of their pets on social media and elsewhere online.  p 
 p An Instagram account set up by the owners of a hedgehog named Biddy in Oregon has nearly 370,000 followers, while  the National Geographic Magazine put a hedgehog on the cover of its April edition to illustrate a trend of people owning exotic animals.  p 
 p The U.S. Department of Agriculture, which requires anyone breeding at least three hedgehogs to get a license, says it has no data on hedgehog ownership.  p 
 p The breed is a hybrid of the four-toed hedgehog or African white-bellied hedgehog and the Algerian hedgehog. Its natural habitat is central, eastern and southern Africa. It is now illegal to import them into the United States, meaning the current breeding stock cannot be expanded.  p 
 p But Jill Warnick, a breeder in Brookline, Massachusetts, said demand for hedgehogs has grown so much over the years that potential pet owners have to fill out an application form and then wait for their turn to buy the weaned offspring.  p 
 p “When I first started I might have a waiting list of five people,” Warnick said, as hedgehogs slept in hiding spots installed in their cages. “Well, 19 years later, I have a waiting list of 500 people.”  p 
 p Breeders typically begin holding hedgehog offspring in their hands for a short time each day beginning a few days after their birth, in an effort to get them accustomed to humans. That helps make pet hedgehogs bond with their owners, said Warnick, who has sold about 350 hedgehogs.  p 
 p The animals are banned in six states and Washington, D.C., for reasons ranging from being nonnative species to concerns that they could set up a wild population.  p 
 p Hedgehogs can also shed the salmonella bacterium, which represents a health risk to young children and older people with weakened immune systems.  p 
 p Pet owners can minimize that risk by washing their hands immediately after handling hedgehogs, cleaning their cages or feeding them, said Sarah McCormack, a veterinarian at Fresh Pond Animal Hospital in Belmont, Massachusetts.  p 
 p Larry Hajna,  a spokesman for the  state Department of Environmental Protection said prospective hedgehog owners in  New Jersey should complete a permit application for exotic and non-game wildlife species possession. The fee is ten dollars and the form can be downloaded at http:  www.state.nj.us dep fgw pdf xotic_hobby.pdf.  p 
 p A copy of current exotic animal regulations is available at www.njfishandwildlife.com pdf permregs.pdf. For more information, call (908) 735-5450 or visit http:  www.state.nj.us dep fgw permreq.htm.  p 
 p Contributing: Associated Press  p 
 p What you need to know about pet hedgehogs  p 
 p  b WHERE DO THEY COME FROM?  b  The breed is a hybrid of the four-toed hedgehog or African white-bellied hedgehog and the Algerian hedgehog. The scientific name is Atelerix albiventris. Its natural habitat is central, eastern and southern Africa. It is now illegal to import them into the United States, meaning the current breeding stock cannot be expanded.  p 
 p  b WHAT DO THEY LOOK LIKE?  b  An adult African pygmy hedgehog is 6 to 11 inches long and weighs 1 to 2 pounds. A relaxed one is generally oval, with a very short tail and short limbs that keep the body close to the ground. When threatened or disturbed, it contracts a series of muscles, rolls into a ball and forces its quills out in all directions. Female hedgehogs are slightly larger than males. The face and underside are covered with a soft, white fur.  p 
 p  b WHAT DO THEY EAT?  b  In the wild, the hedgehog feeds mainly on insects. It also eats earthworms, snails and slugs, as well as small snakes and frogs. Pet owners feed cat food to domesticated hedgehogs.  p 
 p  b HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE FOR THEM TO REPRODUCE?  b  Their gestation period is about 35 days. Hedgehogs are born in litters of two to 10, each bearing soft white quills that do not injure the mother during birth. The U.S. Department of Agriculture requires anyone breeding at least three hedgehogs to get a license.  p 
 p  i SOURCES: Dr. Sarah McCormack of Fresh Pond Animal Hospital; Dr. Jennifer Graham of Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University; African Wildlife Foundation; University of Michigan’s Animal Diversity Web; Cosley Zoo  i   p 
