 p  strong This animal is quite a charming  a href="https:  myanimals.com choosing-the-right-veterinarian-for-your-pet " pet  a  that has become popular in recent years.  strong  One of the reasons for this could be due to all the attention it’s getting from some international companies’ TV ads. Below, you can find some facts about hedgehogs.  p 
 p When it comes to hedgehogs,  strong their quills are its most well-known feature, and also what humans fear the most about them.  strong  However, that fear disappears when we see their sweet faces and the cute twinkle they have in their eyes.  p 
 p Another fact that you should know about hedgehogs is that their quills are nothing more than hollow hairs with a keratin coating, which gives them their rigid appearance. Despite a lot of myths about them,  strong they cannot shoot them out as if they were darts. And, of course, they aren’t poisonous.   strong   p 
 p  strong This animal’s eyes are separated wide apart from their snout.   strong The tip of their little nose is what makes them even cuter. These animals are usually brown or black, depending on the kind of hedgehog.  p 
 p  strong Their ears are small, pointy, and have a rounded tip   strong that is located on the sides of the small, spiked crest that crowns their heads. A hedgehog’s  strong chest, legs, and hands are pink and practically hairless.  strong   p 
 p One of the most common questions about  a href="https:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Hedgehog" hedgehogs  a  has to do with their diet.  strong These animals are  a href="https:  myanimals.com do-vegetarian-dogs-exist " vegetarians  a  and their diet is based mainly on insects, fruits and vegetables.  strong  They can also eat cat food because it’s easy for them to digest.  p 
 p  strong Their natural habitats and places of origin are in Europe, Asia, and Africa.  strong  However, since they are becoming very popular pets, they have expanded to other continents. So, hedgehogs can be found in almost any corner of the world.  p 
 p The demand for this animal as a pet has caused the species’ population to increase. Of course, there are always two sides to everything, but there is no reason get into that now.  p 
 p Although they may not look like they, hedgehogs are  a href="https:  myanimals.com six-behavioral-problems-in-dogs " territorial  a  animals, like dogs and cats.  strong If his territory is threatened, he’ll use his best weapon: his quills.   strong   p 
 p Plus, hedgehogs are independent creatures.  strong This is something you should keep in mind if you’re considering adopting one as a pet.  strong  These animals really don’t like being part of a family, especially if one is adopted as an adult. That’s why it is suggested that you adopt them when they’re babies so they can become accustomed to a more social and family life.  p 
 p style="text-align: center;"  em Being rolled up in a ball is, without a doubt, a hedgehog’s most well-known trait. They can roll up into a small ball thanks to the flexibility of their particular and orbicular muscles. It’s also one of the ways that they defend themselves. So, don’t be surprised if your hedgehog does this when you’re trying to catch him. Until he trusts you, he won’t unroll himself.   em   p 
 p Just like  a href="https:  myanimals.com what-should-you-feed-your-guinea-pig " hamsters  a , hedgehogs are also excellent climbers.  This is important to keep in mind when you’re buying a cage because it should have a lid on it.  p 
 p Not all hedgehogs are good pets or are even allowed to be. The most common are the pygmy or  a href="http:  www.reshafim.org.il ad egypt bestiary hedgehog.htm" Egyptian  a  hedgehogs, but there are others that can also be adopted. Here rea a few of them:  p 
 p These are just some types, but there are many more that can be adopted. If you decide to bring a hedgehog into your life,  strong make sure the one you’re going to adopt is legal in your country.   strong   p 
 p  strong They have a  a href="https:  myanimals.com animals-with-the-shortest-lifespan " life expectancy  a  of 8 years,  strong  regardless of whether they live in a domestic environment as a pet or in the wild. If you decide to get one, you’ll see that your hedgehog can be a good pet if he can adapt to a family life. Having a pet that’s from all the others is quite fun, you’ll see!  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" Here at My Animals, you can read about the best birds to have at home. You’ll find these animals are the best pets for people who don’t enough time to dedicate to a cate or dog. Birds are wonderful pets…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" Gouldian Finch is one of the most popular exotic birds. Their harmonious colors are very eye-catching. People adopt them due to how great they look in their home. They’re originally from Australia and they require special care when they’re kept…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" Different animals are becoming more trendy to have as pets. The days of only having cats or dogs are gone because nowadays people are wanting to have ferrets, snakes and other exotic pets. In fact, many people do wonder if…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" In 1969, Rod Wells, a fossil-searching fanatic, entered Victoria Cave in southern Australia. He could never have imagined that deep inside lay fossils of some of the largest animals to roam the earth. Welcome to the megafauna of Australia. This…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" Changes in temperature are often dangerous for a cat’s health. You should keep this in mind and take action during extreme weather conditions, be it too hot or too cold. How changes in temperature affect your cat A cat’s optimal…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" Only those who’ve lost a dog know what it means to walk around looking desperately, going from door to door, placing posters (or sharing their photo on social media). A good solution would be using a microchip for dogs to…  p 
 p class="excerpt regent-grey-color" The American pygmy kingfisher is the miniature version of the common kingfisher. They share many characteristics, but their main difference is the size. Physical characteristics of the American pygmy kingfisher The American pygmy kingfisher is a rather colorful bird who…  p 
 p class="center-xs disclaimer" 
                             small The content in this publication is presented for informative purposes only. In no sense is this information intended to provide diagnoses or act as a substitute for the work of a qualified professional. For this we recommend that you contact a reliable specialist.  small 
                          p 
 p © 2019  strong My Animals  strong  | A blog on tips, care and everything related to the world of animals.  p 
 p class="center-xs disclaimer" 
                            The content in this publication is presented for informative purposes only. In no sense is this information intended to provide diagnoses or act as a substitute for the work of a qualified professional. For this we recommend that you contact a reliable specialist.                          p 
