 p  i class="icon-time icon-2x"   i  January 28, 2015  p 
 p February 2 sup nd  sup  is World Wetlands Day! Often viewed as wasteland, these swamps, marshes and vernal pools are a severely underappreciated natural resource, and they are actually a vital habitat for many species. In fact, more than a third of the federally listed species on the Endangered Species Act rely directly, or indirectly, on wetlands for their survival. Wetlands also help to purify and replenish our water and act as a sort of natural sponge against flooding and drought. Unfortunately, because these benefits are not widely known, 64% of all wetlands have been destroyed since 1900, and we’re continuing to lose them at an alarming rate. Here in Utica we are lucky enough to have the Utica Marsh Wildlife Management Area right next door, which protects more than 200 acres of diverse habitat that harbors a great variety of plants and animals, including birds, turtles, frogs and insects. If you are interested in learning more about the importance of wetlands and getting involved in World Wetlands Day, please visit:  a href="worldwetlandsday.org" target="_blank" worldwetlandsday.org  a   p 
 p February 2 sup nd  sup  is also Hedgehog Day! Long before the North American tradition of Groundhog Day, the ancient Romans celebrated with hedgehogs. Just like Punxsutawney Phil, if the hedgehog looked out of its burrow and saw its shadow, there would be six more weeks of winter. Here at the  strong Utica Zoo  strong , we currently have three African Pygmy Hedgehogs; Carly, Humphrey and their daughter Violet, who are all used in education programs. Despite their name, hedgehogs are not related to pigs, nor are they related to porcupines. They do, however, have 5,000-6,000 spines covering their body that are an excellent defense, especially when they are rolled up into a protective ball. To learn more about our hedgehogs and meet them up close, call 315-738-0472 ext 36 to book your birthday party or education program!  p 
 p  a href="tel:1-315-738-0472" Phone: (315) 738-0472  a  br 1 Utica Zoo Way, Utica , NY 13501  br 
                Copyright 2019 Utica Zoological Society  p 
