 p Walking through Bowdown Woods - Rob Appleby  p 
 p The Wildlife Trusts is a movement made up of 46 Wildlife Trusts: independent charities with a shared mission for wildlife and people. Find out more about us  p 
 p Steve Day  p 
 p Find out more about our work saving wildlife and wild places and bringing people closer to nature across the UK. Includes education, managing habitats, nature and wellbeing, advice to farmers, saving species and more.  p 
 p Volunteers at Woodberry Wetlands  p 
 p Find out how you can get involved with helping wildlife and your Wildlife Trust. Ideas for simple things you can do to help wildlife, membership, volunteering, campaigns and events.  p 
 p In Greno woods, Sheffield - Helena Dolby  p 
 p Information on our 2,300 nature reserves and where to see particular species and habitats.  p 
 p David Tipling  p 
 p Information on the UK's wildlife and habitats - from birds, bees and dragonflies to wildflowers and ancient trees. Advice on wildlife and managing habitats.  p 
 p © Jon Hawkins - Surrey Hills Photography  p 
 p ©Tom Marshall  p 
 p Hedgehogs usually hibernate between November through to mid March, but they can sometimes be seen out and about during this period changing nesting sites. It is unusual to see a hedgehog staggering around during winter or in daylight, so if you do see one and it looks unwell, it might need a helping hand.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are wild animals, so being handled is a stressful experience. If you are unsure, contact a  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk found-a-hedgehog " specialist group  a  before trying to help. If you decide to intervene, here's what to do:  p 
 p © Tom Marshall  p 
 p Prepare a cardboard box with high sides by lining it with a towel or scrunched up newspaper (so that the hedgehog can hide).  p 
 p Find yourself a pair of gardening gloves before gently scooping up the hedgehog into the box.  p 
 p Keep the box in a quiet, warm place: a hot water bottle filled with hot tap water wrapped in a towel can provide a gentle heat source – make sure it doesn’t go cold!  p 
 p You can provide some fresh water and meaty cat or dog food, but don't try to feed the hedgehog directly.  p 
 p If you haven't already, contact  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk found-a-hedgehog " The British Hedgehog Preservation Society  a , who can offer in depth advice and help you find a local rescue centre. The Wildlife Trusts do not offer a general service for care and rehabilitation of sick or injured animals, although some individual Trusts may offer local services. For more information on hedgehogs and how you can help them, visit our pages on the subject.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are found throughout the UK, save a few Scottish islands. Gardens, hedgerows, woodlands, grasslands, parks, and cemeteries are all important hedgehog habitats, and adult hedgehogs travel between 1-2km per night over home ranges between 10-20 hectares in size searching for food and mates – that’s entire housing estates and neighbourhoods!  p 
 p Everyone’s contribution is important. Combined, our gardens provide a space for wildlife larger than all our National Nature Reserves, so by gardening in a wildlife-friendly way, we can help our spiky companions move around safely and find a home. br 
Download our free 'Get creative for hedgehogs' booklet  a href=" sites default files 2018-05 WAG%20get%20creative%20for%20hedgehogs.pdf" target="_blank" here  a  for more information and inspiration of what you can do to help hedgehogs!  p 
 p Putting out a bit of food can help see mammals like hedgehogs through colder spells.  p 
 p By providing safe places for hedgehogs to live, you’re much more likely to see these prickly creatures in your garden.  p 
 p Help hedgehogs get around by making holes and access points in fences and barriers to link up the gardens in your neighbourhood.  p 
 p The Wildlife Trusts are working hard across the UK to restore habitat for wildlife and campaign for better protection for all nature. Many Trusts run projects to address the disappearance of our hedgehogs, including raising awareness in local communities, recording sightings, encouraging people to take action at home, and targeting hedgehog hotspots for conservation efforts. In March, 2015 Warwickshire Wildlife Trust launched a landmark project to create the UK’s  a href="http:  www.helpforhedgehogs.co.uk tbuilder-layout solihull " target="_blank" first dedicated hedgehog conservation area  a  - a ‘Hedgehog Improvement Area’ which aims to put Solihull on the map as a model for hedgehog conservation in the UK.  p 
 p John Bridges  p 
 p Gillian Lloyd  p 
 p The Wildlife Trusts: Protecting  strong Wildlife   strong for the Future. Registered charity number 207238  p 
