 p class="promo__copy" What will the 2019 Loch Arkaig nest camera capture?  p 
 p class="promo__copy" We're fighting for street trees. Are you?  p 
 p class="promo__copy" Your journey to a thousand woods starts here.  p 
 p class="promo__copy" The time to create a Northern Forest is now.  p 
 p class="promo__copy"  Help us make a difference.  p 
 p class="intro__content" Perhaps our best loved mammal, the hedgehog population has suffered a worrying decline.  p 
 p  span Hedgehogs have suffered from the loss of hedgerows and other suitable habitat.   span (Photo: Stephan Morris iStock)  p 
 p Hedgehogs mainly feed on  span beetles, worms, slugs and other invertebrates. (Photo: simplydave iStock)  span   p 
 p Baby hedgehogs are called hoglets. (Photo: MilesDavies iStock)  p 
 p  strong Scientific name:  strong   em Erinaceus europaeus  em   p 
 p  strong Family:  strong  Erinaceidae  p 
 p With their spiny back, long snout and waddling gait, there is no mistaking the hedgehog. Adults are around 20-25 cm long and may weigh up to 1.2kg.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are found across the UK and can live in a variety of habitats including woodland, farmland, and parks and gardens. A much less common sight than they once were, hedgehogs are strictly nocturnal and spend the winter months in hibernation. Your best chance of seeing one is to put out some suitable food in your garden, such as wet dog or cat food, and hope you are visited in the night. Hedgehogs are also surprisingly noisy, so listen out for their distinctive huffing and puffing sounds.  p 
 p Invertebrates are a hedgehog’s favoured food, with beetles, slugs, earthworms and caterpillars high on the menu. Occasionally, they may also eat carrion and the eggs of ground-nesting birds.  p 
 p Hedgehogs spend much of their life asleep, hibernating through the winter months in a nest made from fallen leaves or other sheltered spot. They emerge in spring, but will spend the day sleeping, becoming active after the sun has gone down. Hedgehogs are naturally solitary and only come together to mate, although multiple hogs may be attracted to a plentiful food source, such as food left out by people. After mating, two to seven young, known as hoglets, will be born. They will spend up to six weeks with their mother, before setting out on their own. Hedgehogs have been known to live for seven years, but a lifespan of two to three is more typical.  p 
 p It has been suggested that as much as 30% of the UK hedgehog population has been lost since 2002 alone. This worrying trend is likely down to a combination of potential factors. Changing agricultural practices have reduced suitable habitat in the countryside and may have depleted numbers of hedgehog’s invertebrate prey. The fall in hedgehog numbers has also coincided with an increase in badgers - the species’ only significant predator – although this is unlikely to have driven the decline alone.  p 
 p In urban areas, there are concerns that gardens are becoming less suitable for hedgehogs. A growing preference for low-maintenance gardens with little plant cover deprives hedgehogs of both food and shelter. Meanwhile, fences and walls can make it difficult for hedgehogs to move between gardens and may force them to cross roads more often – thousands of hogs are killed by cars each year.  p 
 p Find out how you can  a href="https:  www.woodlandtrust.org.uk naturedetectives blogs nature-detectives-blog 2015 09 attract-hedgehogs-garden " target="_blank" make you garden hedgehog-friendly  a . You could even  a href="https:  www.woodlandtrust.org.uk blog 2017 02 how-to-make-hedgehog-house " target="_blank" build  a , or  a href="http:  www.woodlandtrustshop.com products 987-hedgehog-haus.aspx" target="_blank" buy  a , a hedgehog home.  p 
 p class="content-card__copy" You can give hedgehogs a helping hand by providing them with food and shelter.  p 
 p class="content-card__copy" Learn about other mammals you could find in your local wood.  p 
 p class="content-card__copy" Look and listen out for these birds in the UK's woods, with identification tips.  p 
 p class="content-card__copy" Your A-Z guide of native and common non-native trees you'll find throughout the UK.  p 
 p The Woodland Trust is a charity registered in England and Wales (No. 294344) and in Scotland (No. SC038885). A non-profit making company limited by guarantee. Registered in England No. 1982873. br Woodland Trust (Enterprises) Limited, registered in England (No. 2296645), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Woodland Trust. Registered office: Kempton Way, Grantham, Lincolnshire, NG31 6LL. br The Woodland Trust and Woodland Trust Nature Detectives logos are registered trademarks. Images © protected Woodland Trust. VAT No. GB520 6111 04.  p 
