 p Be a Friend of the Albatross and help save thousands of lives each year.  p 
 p Learn how the world's largest wildlife survey started.  p 
 p Bird &amp; Wild coffee have been awarded Best Buy in Ethical Consumer’s latest review into coffee.  p 
 p 10 years of the Climate Change Act  p 
 p The winter can be a tough time of year for birds. But there are 10 top ways that you can give them a helping hand.  p 
 p Find out what to do if you spot a baby bird.  p 
 p A small, dark goose - the same size as a mallard. It has a black head and neck and grey-brown back.  p 
 p A nocturnal bird that can be seen hawking for food at dusk and dawn.  p 
 p male ring ouzels are particularly distinctive with their black plumage with a pale wing panel and striking white breast band.  p 
 p Become a campaign champion with the RSPB.  p 
 p  Explore these pages to find an opportunity that suits you.   p 
 p Help us create 1000 homes for swifts.  p 
 p There's so much to see and hear at Minsmere, from rare birds and otters to stunning woodland and coastal scenery.  p 
 p This is a delightful oak woodland to walk through – especially in spring and early summer.  p 
 p Heathland home to more than 2565 species.  p 
 p Nature is an adventure waiting to be had. Get out, get busy and get wild!  p 
 p Pond dipping is something we can all do and it's loads of fun!  p 
 p Explore the little pools of amazing sea life that are left by the tide on the rocks around our coast.  p 
 p class="standfirst" 
        These spiky mammals are a common visitor to UK gardens. Whether they're living in our undergrowth or just passing through, they're a wonderful animal to share our homes with. 
      p 
 p The hedgehog is one of our most familiar garden mammals.  p 
 p Seldom seen during the day, their nocturnal wanderings take them through several gardens in the evening, where they feed on a variety of invertebrates such as snails and slugs, beetles, caterpillars and worms.  p 
 p They are very good at running, climbing and swimming. In cold winter weather they will go into hibernation, only emerging when conditions are warmer.  p 
 p Their nests may be quite large, usually made of mosses, grass, leaves and other garden debris. They can be found at the base of thick hedges, under thick bramble bushes, garden sheds or piles of rubbish.  p 
 p There are a number of ways you can give hedgehogs a home in your garden.   p 
 p Making sure they have lots of thick dense undergrowth and a variety of lengths of grass to hide and nest in is always good. You can also make your garden a hot spot for the slugs, snails and bugs that hedgehogs like to munch on.  p 
 p You can also try to provide hedgehogs with supplementary food and water. This is particularly useful during periods of drought when natural insect foods may be harder to come by. Their varied diet allows them to eat all kinds of foods we have around the home!  p 
 p  strong Never feed hedgehogs milk or bread.  strong  They can't digest them - it upsets their stomachs. A particular favourite is hedgehog food, complete cat biscuits or meaty cat or dog food.  p 
 p Hedgehogs like to move from garden to garden and it’s useful to help give them openings between boundaries. If your garden is contained by a fence or wall, try to make them a small opening on either side, so that they can easily wander from neighbour to neighbour.   p 
 p Another way to give hedgehogs a home in our gardens is by putting out a hedgehog box.  p 
 p You can build your own by following the Give A Hog A Home link, or you can buy from a whole range of different hog houses on the  a href="https:  shopping.rspb.org.uk hedgehogs " RSPB Shop  a .  br  br Whichever path you choose to take, you'll be giving a safe place to nest and shelter to the hedgehogs that share our gardens!  p 
 p Once you've got your box and you're ready to find a place for it in your garden, here are a few things to think about:  p 
 p It may take a year for a hedgehog to take up home in your box, or it may not happen at all. This is nothing to worry about, as it could mean that they've found suitable natural nesting sites in your or the surrounding gardens.   p 
 p Have a go at making a home for the hedgehogs in you garden. You can even do it as part of your  a href=" makeahomeforwildlife givenatureahomeinyourgarden personal-plan " personal plan  a !  p 
 p Hedgehog numbers are in decline, and it’s important that we do everything we can to help give them a safe home to thrive again.  p 
 p Building boxes, growing wildlife friendly gardens and providing food goes a long way towards that, but there are other ways that we can help to protect these amazing prickly mammals.  p 
 p    p 
 p If you come across an injured or sick hedgehog, there are many rescue charities all over the UK, including Tiggywinkles.  p 
 p We spend  a href=" about-the-rspb about-us how-the-rspb-is-run annual-review-old " 90% of net income  a  on conservation, public education and advocacy  p 
 p The RSPB is a member of  strong BirdLife International  strong . a href=" about-the-rspb at-home-and-abroad international #block-id-birdlife"  Find out more about the partnership  a   p 
 p class="copyright" 
          p 
 p ©  strong The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds  strong  (RSPB) is a registered charity: England and Wales no. 207076, Scotland no. SC037654  p 
 p We use cookies on our website to help give you the best online experience.  a href="http:  www.rspb.org.uk help managecookies.aspx?dcm=1" Tell me more  a   p 
