 p Tawny owl by Beverley Carpenter  p 
 p  strong  strong Suffolk Wildlife Trust is Suffolk’s nature charity – the only organisation dedicated to safeguarding Suffolk’s wildlife and countryside.  strong   strong   p 
 p  strong  strong We make a difference for Suffolk by m  strong   strong  strong  strong anaging nature reserves - securing a bigger, better and more connected landscape for wildlife and by i  strong   strong  strong  strong nspiring the next generation through hands-on experiences with nature.  strong   strong   p 
 p By John Ferguson  p 
 p  strong We have something for everyone! br 
Events for tots through to teens, wildlife courses for adults, practical conservation volunteering and 52 nature reserves which are free to visit.  strong   p 
 p By Steve Aylward  p 
 p  strong Our nature reserves are some of Suffolk's most inspiring wild places. From tiny meadows to rolling heaths, they are as varied as the animals and plants that live in them. You are welcome to enjoy them all, free of charge... and when you're home again, please help us care for the nature reserves you've enjoyed, by  a href="https:  membership.wildlifetrusts.org join join-suffolk-wildlife-trust ?utm_expid=108677353-7.xzR3RVyYRXKUSiUu_eaEKw.1&amp;utm_referrer=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.suffolkwildlifetrust.org%2Fdiscover-learn%2Fschools%2Four-reserves-and-centres%2Ffoxburrow-farm" target="_blank"  u joining Suffolk Wildlife Trust.  u   a   strong   p 
 p Dormouse by Catpaws  p 
 p  strong Our vision for Suffolk is a joined-up landscape where species can spread out from nature reserves into wildlife-rich countryside, towns and villages.  strong   p 
 p Harvest mouse  p 
 p By John Ferguson  p 
 p Inspiring interest in the natural world and getting children closer to nature is what Suffolk Wildlife Trust is all about - to make nature part of everyday life.  p 
 p The West-European hedgehog is an iconic British species, but they are undergoing a worrying decline. In rural areas, over 50% have been lost in the past two decades and in urban areas, up to a third of populations have been lost between 2000 and 2014. There is however hope; the decline in our towns and cities may be slowing, suggesting the actions that people are taking in their own neighbourhoods could be making a real difference ( a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org wp-content uploads 2018 02 SoBH-2018_final-1.pdf" target="_blank" PTES &amp; BPHS 2018  a ).  p 
 p Hedgehogs face threats in both urban and rural areas with habitat loss, fragmentation and the reduction in habitat quality being major issues. Agricultural intensification and urbanisation are contributors to these, with reduced habitat features, fewer invertebrates, increased hard surfacing and impermeable boundaries resulting in fewer nesting and feeding areas, less connected habitat patches, greater risks of predation and more isolated populations. See the Conservation Strategy for the West-European hedgehog document,  a href="https:  ptes.org wp-content uploads 2015 11 Conservation-strategy-for-the-hedgehog-in-the-UK-2015-2025.pdf" target="_blank" here  a , for more information.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are listed as a UK ‘Priority Species’ under S41 of the NERC Act (2006). Additionally to this they have limited protection under Schedule 6 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act (1981) as amended, meaning they may not be caught or trapped without a licence. The causes of decline in hedgehog populations are not currently addressed by any legislation.  p 
 p There are three main hedgehog habitat requirements to consider in a planning context: br 
1) High quality feeding habitat - moist grassland, rotting wood and wildflowers to encourage invertebrates. br 
2) A range of nesting opportunities – medium sized fallen leaves from deciduous trees such as oak and beech, as well as supporting structures for winter and breeding nesting eg. log piles or bramble patches. Tussocky grassland and shrubbery in gardens is required for day nesting during the active season. br 
3) The importance of well-connected habitat - hedgehogs roam on average ~2km a night and an urban population is thought to need at least ~1km sup 2  sup  of well-connected habitat to remain viable.  p 
 p • Recent records obtained from county records centre or  a href="https:  species.nbnatlas.org " target="_blank" NBN Atlas  a  br 
• Presence of suitable habitat  p 
 p If hedgehogs have been recorded locally and suitable habitat is present, it is likely that due to the wide-ranging behaviour of hedgehogs, the habitat will be used in some form. The significance of the habitat will depend on how it is being used; for foraging, summer nesting, hibernation, or both. A 200m length of bramble can support upwards of 10 hibernating hedgehogs, and this habitat could be the most significant hibernating resource in the locality. Its removal could therefore have a high impact on the local hedgehog population. Similarly, the removal of an important moist grassland feeding area could impact on populations within 75 hectares of the site ( a href="https:  www.nhbs.com uk-bap-mammals-book" target="_blank" Cresswell  em et al.  em  2012  a ). Other than looking for field signs, the standardized way of detecting hedgehogs is through the use of footprint tunnels, more information can be found  a href="http:  www.mammal.org.uk sites default files National%20hedgehog%20survey%20volunteer%20handbook_2.pdf" target="_blank" here  a .  p 
 p Hedgehog breeding nest  p 
 p  u Broad scale connectivity  u   p 
 p Large scale developments will offer the best opportunity for influencing broad scale connectivity, but all developments should be well designed with wildlife in mind. Regardless, connectivity of green spaces across a development is very important, as well as the retention of existing habitat features. The creation of habitat features such as those mentioned above can support high densities of hedgehog. Incorporating existing natural features and linking these with green infrastructure like footpaths, cycleways and newly created habitat is a great way of ensuring effective connectivity at the earliest stage. This approach has been taken by a pioneering eco-friendly development in Cambourne, Cambridgeshire.  p 
 p Major roads increase habitat fragmentation for hedgehogs, especially if walls are constructed in between carriageways. Road mitigation such as culverts, underpasses and overbridges are likely beneficial, as long as they are not permanently water logged or water filled.   p 
 p  u Fine scale connectivity  u   p 
 p At a finer scale, boundaries should be permeable to hedgehogs, with the use of 13x13cm ground level access holes. These holes will also be critical for other species negatively impacted by habitat fragmentation, such as the common toad  em Bufo bufo  em . Each fenced or walled garden should be connected to every other neighbouring piece of land with a hedgehog hole. Specific hedgehog holes can be built into gravel boards, and gates can have a gap height of 13cm to ensure permeability. This is a cheap and very effective way of improving urban connectivity for ground inhabiting species. The use of  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org building-hedgehog-friendly-housing " target="_blank" Hedgehog Street   a Hedgehog Highway plaques to mark the purpose of the holes also provide a PR opportunity to promote wildlife friendly building. We have a limited number of Hedgehog Highway plaques available to purchase for Ipswich developments, please  a href="http:  www.suffolkwildlifetrust.org contact" get in touch  a  for more information.  p 
 p To improve the situation for hedgehogs we really need to work together. Where do you fit in? Can you help?  p 
 p • We need awareness amongst existing gardens owners to be increased (through the national project  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org " target="_blank" Hedgehog Street  a ,  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk " target="_blank" BHPS  a ,  a href="https:  www.rspb.org.uk " target="_blank" RSPB   a and Wildlife Trust projects such as our  a href="http:  www.suffolkwildlifetrust.org hedgehogs-action" own  a ) br 
• We need ecological consultants and planning officers to push for hedgehog mitigation br 
• We need hedgehog friendly fencing and walls to be standard in all new builds and we need fencing options to be easily available and promoted by contractors, architects, and landscapers.  p 
 p Hedgehog highway  p 
 p  strong To improve the situation for hedgehogs we really need to work together. Where do you fit in? Can you help?  strong  br 
• We need awareness amongst existing gardens owners to be increased (through the national project  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org " target="_blank" Hedgehog Street  a ,  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk " target="_blank" BHPS  a ,  a href="https:  www.rspb.org.uk " target="_blank" RSPB   a and Wildlife Trust projects such as our  a href=" node 971" own  a ) br 
• We need ecological consultants and planning officers to push for hedgehog mitigation br 
• We need hedgehog friendly fencing and walls to be standard in all new builds and we need fencing options to be easily available and promoted by contractors, architects, and landscapers.  p 
 p Suffolk Wildlife Trust is part of a UK-wide network of Wildlife Trusts. It is the only charity dedicated wholly to safeguarding Suffolk's wildlife and countryside.  p 
 p Suffolk Wildlife Trust: Registered charity number 262777  p 
