 p It’s time for the lowdown on one of our planet’s cutest critters! Ready? Then check out our adorable  strong hedgehog facts  strong …  p 
 p  strong Scientific name  strong : Erinaceus br 
 strong Family name  strong : Erinaceidae br 
 strong Classification  strong : Mammal br 
 strong IUCN status  strong : Least concern br 
 strong Lifespan (in wild)  strong : Around seven years br 
 strong Weight  strong : Up to 1.1kg br 
 strong Body length  strong : 14cm – 30cm br 
 strong Top speed  strong : 9.5km h bursts br 
 strong Diet  strong : Carnivore br 
 strong Habitat  strong : Grassland, hedgerows, woodland and meadows br 
 strong Range  strong :  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Hedgehogs are famous for their  strong prickly spines  strong , which they have everywhere except on their face, legs and bellies. These cute critters depend on their spines for defense, both while they sleep and when they face enemies. By curling into a tight ball and tucking in their heads, tail and legs, they protect vulnerable parts of their body.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" The body of adult hedgehogs ranges from 14 to 30 centimetres long, and their tail can add one to six centimetres. When they are born (there can be up to seven in a litter) their spines are soft and short. But soon after birth, their spines harden, becoming stiffer, sharper and longer. Babies stay in the nest until they”re about three weeks old. By that time, their eyes are open, their spines are effective and they can safely follow their mother outside the nest as she looks for food.  p 
 p Top on the hedgehog”s menu are insects, followed by small mice, snails, lizards, frogs, eggs and even snakes. Mostly  strong nocturnal creatures  strong , they head out at night in search of food – but they are sometimes active during the day, too, particularly after it rains.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Hedgehogs have a trick up their,  em errr  em , “sleeve” to give themselves extra protection – “ strong self anointing  strong .” These amazing animals are immune to certain poisonous plants, which they eat before making a frothy saliva in their mouth. The hedgehogs then lick their spines, spreading the saliva with the plant”s poison all over the spikes. Scientists believe this may help hedgehogs hide their scent from predators, or give them a nasty shock shock should they attack!  p 
 p There are  strong 15 different species of hedgehog  strong , found across Europe, Asia and Africa. Whilst these cool creatures mainly stay on the ground, they are quite good swimmers and can climb trees, too!  p 
 p    p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p It´s very cool!  p 
 p Hedgehogs are cute but they need to be saved-their habits are being destroyed.  p 
 p hedgehogs are so cute and are very interesting!  p 
 p this is so cool  p 
 p i LOVE your facts you are superb  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
