 p Hedgehog Clinic in West Berkshire  p 
 p class="standout" In need of help?  p 
 p in spring, summer, or autumn should be released at dusk or after dark.  p 
 p Damp conditions are good but hard ground (either from frost in early spring or drought in summer) makes finding food difficult for them.  p 
 p  Try to put them back as near to where they were found as is safe and sensible.  p 
 p They do know their own home area and so it is usually only those found in a precarious place such as a building site that will need be taken to another, safer, location but there are checks that MUST be done first to make sure the area is suitable or you may be condemning them to a lonely death.  p 
 p If you intend to release in a garden, make sure there is free access in and out. Hogs travel large distances and the recommended minimum area for them is 10 good sized gardens. You cannot keep a healthy hog locked in your own garden to act as slug control. If you want it to stay around, even though it can leave at any time, put out food and water for it every day.  p 
 p You should only release overwintered animals when the overnight temperatures have been above 5 degrees C for at least a week.  p 
 p If the weather is forecast to take a bad turn again, then keep the hogs in or put them outside in a pre-release pen or a secure garden with a house, food and water available at all times.  p 
 p All long stay hedgehogs, especially those brought in as babies or very young juveniles, will need to spend some time in an outside pen or enclosed garden before release to get acclimatised. To make the transition back to the wild as gentle as possible, we would like you to put out some food and water at least for the first few nights or until it remains uneaten. To stop cats or birds getting the food, you can put it under an upside-down box with a hole cut out of the side, under a slab resting on 4 bricks on edge or in a purpose built feeding station with a tunnel similar to a house.  p 
 p If the hedgehog disappears on the first night and does not touch the food, then there is no need to continue to leave some out for it unless you want it to return or to attract other hogs in. A bowl of water on the ground at all times, but especially in dry weather is very welcome for all wildlife, and of course if you have gained a regular garden visitor, it would be nice to continue providing extra food for him.  p 
 p The hedgehog should be released in a house or sack of hay which should be put in a sheltered place, under a hedge or bush or by your shed. It will come out in its own time (once you have stopped watching) and go on its way!  p 
 p You may wish to mark it in some way. You could put a little dab of emulsion paint or Tippex on its spines, but be careful to avoid the skin. If you have an enclosed or walled garden please DON’T put the hedgehog inside. It is very cruel to keep a healthy hedgehog in one garden. They need to wander about one mile per night, especially in the mating season.  p 
 p Dr Pat Morris and Randalls Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre have provided the following information.  p 
 p A caution:  p 
 p The suggestions offered are based on impressions gained from three field studies where hedgehogs were released and subsequently radio tracked for two weeks or more.  p 
 p One study was in an area of deciduous forest in Surrey; the animals were let go in the woods in July after several weeks of very dry weather.  p 
 p The other studies were in farmland (pasture, arable fields and hedges), also in dry July weather.  p 
 p The coalition of information on hedgehog release into the wild is continually being updated. It is already clear that each hedgehog behaves differently and some may adapt to the wild faster and better than others.  p 
 p The following are some of the questions we are most frequently asked:-  p 
 p Hedgehogs should never be released into the wild in autumn unless they weigh more than 1 lb (450gms). From the end of October onwards the weight needs to be 600g minimum to cope with the shortened feeding time available prior to hibernation.  p 
 p class="paypara" Hedgehog Bottom is run by volunteers. 100% of all donations go direct to the animals. We do not receive Govt. funding nor support from related charities.  p 
 p OR...  p 
 p class="paypara" Donations are secure via Paypal. You no longer need a Paypal account and can pay by a number of different methods. Anything you can spare will be gratefully eaten.  p 
 p Find us on  p 
 p We care for native wild hedgehogs. Occasionally we get African Pygmy Hogs, bred for the pet market and dumped by the owners. 
      These animals are an entirely different species and need to be treated as such, they cannot survive in the wild.  p 
 p If you are thinking of getting one, please watch this US infovid first. It is illegal to take one of our native hogs from the wild to keep as a pet. It is illegal to throw a pet hog out into the wild.  p 
 p Copyright © 2007 - 2019 Hedgehog Bottom · All Rights Reserved | Site by:  a href="http:  www.jbvisions.co.uk " JBVisions  a  | Consultant Vet -  a href="http:  www.falklandvets.co.uk" title="go to" Falkland Veterinary  a   p 
 p  a href=" tellus index.php" title="our contact details" Contact Us  a   p 
 p HMRC recognised Charity  p 
