 p style="margin-top:16px"  strong class="ng-padding-horizontal ng-color-default"  a class="project-nav-title" href=" education" title="Go to the Education home page" Education  a   strong   p 
 p class="ng-margin-medium-bottom ng-width-1-1 ng-width-medium-1-2" itemprop="alternativeTitle" Amur hedgehogs ( em Erinaceus amurensis  em ) are found in some parts of eastern Asia. They have sharp, strong quills that they use for defense.  p 
 p class="label ng-c-kicker ng-margin-small-bottom" Grades  p 
 p class="data ng-margin-remove" 6 - 12, Higher Ed  p 
 p class="label ng-c-kicker ng-margin-small-bottom" Subjects  p 
 p class="data ng-margin-remove search-item-category" Biology, Ecology  p 
 p class="label ng-c-kicker ng-margin-small-bottom" Contents  p 
 p class="data ng-margin-remove" 2 Photographs  p 
 p Like most hedgehogs, the Amur hedgehog ( em Erinaceus amurensis  em ) is a solitary animal. They typically come together only during mating season. Amur hedgehogs are covered in long, sharp spines, or quills, made of keratin that serve as a defense mechanism. When threatened, they curl up into a ball to protect their head and belly, leaving their quills facing outward. Hedgehog quills are much stronger than porcupine quills and don’t easily break or fall out. Though the presence of quills may suggest that Amur hedgehogs are related to porcupines, they aren’t actually closely related. Their closest relatives, in addition to other species of hedgehogs, include moonrats and gymnures.  p 
 p The Amur hedgehog is found in lowland China, just south of the Yangtze, along the Amur River basin, and into Korea. They are not considered to be threatened, as they are common within their geographic range. They often live along the border between mixed coniferous and broadleaf forests and open spaces, in valleys and lowlands. They prefer tall grasses or bushes and hedges.  p 
 p These hedgehogs are primarily insectivores, though they will sometimes eat small animals and fruit. Amur hedgehogs are nocturnal and usually feed at night. They don’t rely on their vision when they hunt. Instead they hunt using smell. As they root for food, they make a snuffling sound, similar to that made by hogs, which is where they got their name.  p 
 p  strong Though porcupines and hedgehogs share the very distinctive characteristic of quills, they aren’t classified into the same genus or species. What are some reasons they might be classified differently?  strong   p 
 p Answers will vary, but students should express that classification depends on multiple physical characteristics, geographic distribution, diet, and other factors. Different species can’t successfully breed with each other.  p 
 p  strong What is the geographic range of the Amur hedgehog? What is its habitat? What is the difference between the two?  strong   p 
 p Its geographic range is lowland China, just south of the Yangtze, along the Amur River basin, and into Korea. Its habitat is along the border between mixed coniferous and broadleaf forests and open spaces, in valleys and lowlands, and in tall grasses or bushes and hedges. The range is the geographic area throughout which an animal can be found, while the habitat describes the physical home of an animal. This can include characteristics such as the range of temperatures, typical moisture and rainfall, and the types of plants found there.  p 
 p  strong What are some other mammals that have quills or spines? Do they all use their spines in the same way?  strong   p 
 p Other animals with quills or spines include echidnas, tenrecs, and several types of rodents, including porcupines and spiny rats. All animals with spines or quills use them for defense in some way, though exactly how they use them differs. Some animals also use them for other purposes, such as communication or protection from rain.  p 
 p class="ng-text-bold ng-margin-bottom-remove" Articles &amp; Profiles  p 
 p class="ng-text-bold ng-margin-bottom-remove" Websites  p 
 p land covered by trees with wide, flat leaves.  p 
 p land covered by trees with thin needles instead of flat leaves.  p 
 p protection or resistance to attack.  p 
 p primitive tropical hedgehog native to Southeast Asia that eats primarily insects. Also called the moonrat.  p 
 p organism that mostly eats insects.  p 
 p sulfur-containing proteins that make up tissues such as horns, hair, wool, nails, and feathers.  p 
 p time when animals mate, give birth and sometimes raise young.  p 
 p active at night.  p 
 p hollow sharp spine.  p 
 p part of a plant that secures it in the   soil, obtains water and nutrients, and often stores food made by leaves.  p 
 p class="ng-margin-top-remove" The audio, illustrations, photos, and videos are credited beneath the media asset, except for promotional images, which generally link to another page that contains the media credit. The Rights Holder for media is the person or group credited.  p 
 p 
            
                
                    Cassandra Love, Educator and Curriculum Developer
                 br 
            
          p 
 p 
            
                
                    Pierre de Chabannes
                 br 
            
          p 
 p 
            
                
                    Jeanna Sullivan, National Geographic Society
                 br 
            
          p 
 p 
            
                
                    Sarah Appleton, National Geographic Society
                 br 
            
          p 
 p March 19, 2018  p 
 p For information on user permissions, please read our  a href=" terms-of-service " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="terms of service" Terms of Service  a . If you have questions about licensing content on this page, please contact  a href="mailto:ngimagecollection@natgeo.com" ngimagecollection@natgeo.com  a  for more information and to obtain a license. If you have questions about how to cite anything on our website in your project or classroom presentation, please visit our  a href=" faq " FAQ page  a .
      p 
 p Some media assets (videos, photos, audio recordings and PDFs) can be downloaded and used outside the National Geographic website according to the  a href=" terms-of-service " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="Terms of Service" Terms of Service  a . If a media asset is downloadable, a download button appears in the lower right hand corner ( img alt="download" src=" static images download.15b252b7df6f.png" title="download" class="flush" ) of the media viewer. If no button appears, you cannot download or save the media.
      p 
 p Text on this page is printable and can be used according to our  a href=" terms-of-service " target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="Terms of Service" Terms of Service  a .
      p 
 p Any interactives on this page can only be played while you are visiting our website. You cannot download interactives.
      p 
 p Use the resources on this page to teach about the amazing animals in the Photo Ark, highlight the importance of storytelling in conservation, and empower students to spread the word about species extinction.  p 
 p  This photos is used in the following collections:  p 
 p  strong  a href=" topics conservation " conservation  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" topics joel-sartore " In the Wild with Joel Sartore  a   strong   p 
 p  strong  a href=" activity mission-animal-rescue-inquiry-action " Preserving Critical Species: Inquiry to Action  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 7 - 12  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" activity protecting-the-mariana-trench " Protecting the Mariana Trench  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 - 8  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" activity protected-land-areas " Protected Land Areas  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 3 - 5  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" activity mapping-world-heritage " Mapping World Heritage  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 3 - 8  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" activity one-ocean " One Ocean  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 3 - 8  small   p 
 p class="ng-margin-bottom-remove ng-text-right"  a href=" activity list " See All Activities »  a   p 
 p  strong  a href=" media ocean-action " Ocean Action  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 3 - 8  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" media history-ivory-trade " The History of the Ivory Trade  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 and up  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" media human-impact-cloud-forest " Human Impact on the Cloud Forest  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 - 8  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" media craft-or-species " Craft or Species  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades   small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" media tanzanias-ivory-stockpile " Tanzania’s Ivory Stockpile  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 and up  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" thisday sep20 megatransect-protects-african-wilderness " Megatransect Protects African Wilderness  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 - 12  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" thisday dec29 akkala-sami-language-becomes-extinct " Endangered Sami Language Becomes Extinct  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 3 - 12  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" thisday jul29 international-tiger-day " International Tiger Day  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 2 - 12  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" thisday aug30 happy-birthday-sylvia-earle " Happy Birthday, Sylvia Earle  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 - 12  small   p 
 p  strong  a href=" news real-world-geography-dr-stuart-pimm " Conservation Ecologist: Dr. Stuart Pimm  a   strong  br  small class="ng-text-muted" Grades 6 and up  small   p 
 p class="ng-edit-light ng-color-white" 
                National Geographic Headquarters br 
                1145 17th Street NW br 
                Washington, D.C. 20036
                p 
 p class="ng-c-footer-info ng-color-mdltgray ng-edit-light ng-margin-large-top ng-padding-large-top" National Geographic Society is a 501 (c)(3) organization. © 1996 - 2019 National Geographic Society. All rights reserved. See our stories at  a href="https:  www.nationalgeographic.com " target="_self" NationalGeographic.com  a   p 
