 p  img src=".. pics print-logo.gif" width="100" height="55" border="0" alt="Printlogo"     
         span class="h1" Printable version  span   p 
 p  span class="h1" About us  span   p 
 p  span class="h4" Contents:  span  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#aufg" Aims and objectives  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#adress" Addresses  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#bank" Bank details – account for donations  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#netz" Hedgehog Help Network  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#center" Hedgehog Information Centre  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#presse" Press releases  a  br 
                -  a class="nav1" href="#taetig" Activity reports  a  br 
                  p 
 p Pro Igel, the Association for Integrated Nature Conservation in Germany is a nationwide association active
                throughout Germany which advocates conservation of the native hedgehog ( span class="wiss" Erinaceus europaeus
                Linné 1758  span ) by public relations and numerous publications.
                  p 
 p ... inform the public about  problems faced by hedgehogs and  promote conservation measures
                  p 
 p ... support research projects into the behaviour, biology and habitat of the hedgehog  p 
 p ... collect and communicate relevant information to encourage a professional level of care for sick and
                injured hedgehogs  p 
 p ... to contribute to the exchange of practical knowledge and co-operation between hedgehog conservationists or
                to endorse them.  p 
 p ... anyone who has found a hedgehog by giving advice over the phone, by correspondence and also in sending them
                our publications on hedgehog help  p 
 p ... hedgehog lovers, editors, university staff and students and anyone interested in hedgehogs with advice and with our
                info-material on any questions and or projects on anything concerning hedgehogs  p 
 p ... with the help of specialists, consistent and regularly updated information on the conservation and care of hedgehogs
                for rehabilitators, veterinary surgeons and anyone who is interested in hedgehogs  p 
 p ... our magazine "Igel-Bulletin" twice a year, 8000 copies of which are read in fifteen european countries  p 
 p ... the first educational software on hedgehogs for schools from year 2, for environmental studies institutes and for
                everyone who cares about hedgehogs  p 
 p ... with the Swiss Association "pro Igel" a video film "Igel-Leben"- (the Life of the Hedgehog)  p 
 p ... in co-operation with the Arbeitskreis Igelschutz Berlin e.V. (The Working Group for Hedgehog Conservation  in Berlin)
                the CD entitled „Parasitoses and Mycoses of the Hedgehog“ as an aid to diagnosis and treatment  p 
 p ... scientific theses and endorsed research projects and dissertations on the subject of hedgehogs  p 
 p ... Press releases for and contributions to all types of media  p 
 p ... the "Hedgehog Hotline" where anyone at any time can hear seasonally updated information on hedgehogs, which can also be
                received as a fax. Our information service not only promotes the professional care of hedgehogs in need of help but
                frees hedgehog and animal rescue associations from having to give advice over the telephone  p 
 p ... a code of practice for hedgehog rescue centres to raise the standards of hedgehog care  p 
 p ... the "Hedgehog Help Network" run by dedicated carers to provide advice for hedgehog finders  p 
 p ... the "Hedgehog House" in Laatzen near Hannover in co-operation with IGSI. There we created the
                "Hedgehog Information Centre", the first and ten year persistent exhibition in Germany with almost 100 square
                metres of information all about our native hedgehog  p 
 p ...the first conference in Stuttgart in 1993 "All about the Hedgehog"  p 
 p ...the second conference in Muenster Westfalen in 2001 "All about the Hedgehog"  p 
 p ...the international Symposium of the European Hedgehog Research Group (EHRG) in Muenster Westfalen in 2004  p 
 p ...the third conference in Muenster Westfalen in 2009 "All about the Hedgehog"  p 
 p ... an extensive collection of specialist literature which is available to anyone who is interested  p 
 p ... to work with publishers reviewing manuscripts and giving specialist advice  p 
 p ... schools and colleges help with projects and seminars  p 
 p ... with authorities, environmental agencies, gardening clubs, landscape gardeners and companies to promote the maintenance
                and improvement of hedgehog habitats  p 
 p ... with the Deutscher Tierschutzbund (German Animal Protection Federation), the
                BUND (Bund für Umwelt und Naturschutz Deutschland = The German Association for Environment and Nature Conservation), the
                NABU (Naturschutzbund Deutschland = German Association for Nature Conservation) and other animal and nature concervation
                organisations to further hedgehog conservation and rescue.  p 
 p Sparkasse Münsterland Ost br 
                Konto-Nummer: 341 39 345 br Bankleitzahl: 400 501 50 br 
                BIC-Swift-Code: WELADED1 MST br IBAN: DE14 4005 0150 0034 1393 45  p 
 p Our work for hedgehogs, hedgehog conservation and rescue costs money – we are an association of specialists not
                a membership society with members’ contributions. We finance our extensive work entirely from donations!
                Of course we issue certificates for donations for presentation to the tax office.  p 
 p  span class="h2a" Please support our work for hedgehog conservation and rescue!  span   p 
 p  span class="h4" Copyright 1996-2013 Pro Igel e.V.  span   p 
