 p 
                     strong JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.  strong  br 
                    You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.                  p 
 p class="block-subtitle" 
            Shopping Basket          p 
 p class="empty js-cart-empty hidden" You have no items in your shopping cart.  p 
 p class="subtotal" 
                     span class="label" Cart Subtotal:  span 
                     strong class="js-mc-total" £0.00  strong 
                  p 
 p  a href="mailto:sales@wildcare.co.uk" sales@wildcare.co.uk  a  | 01451 833 181  span class="has-text-primary-brown" |  span  Mon-Fri 7.30am-5pm  p 
 p  em Almost one-third of the UK’s hedgehog population has vanished within the last two decades. But there are lots of initiatives to protect them. Let’s familiarise ourselves with these lovable mammals and how to protect them.  em   p 
 p They waddle, huff and puff. They’re nocturnal, they hibernate in winter and roll into a ball as a defence. Their spikes make them unmistakable, and their eyesight is terrible.  p 
 p Unlike other less charismatic species, the humble hedgehog  em (Erinaceus europaeus)  em  is the subject of many conservation campaigns and studies, from the Hedgehog Street project, by the  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk " British Hedgehog Preservation Society (BHPS)  a  and  a href="https:  ptes.org " People’s Trust for Endangered Species (PTES)  a , to  a href="https:  www.woodlandtrust.org.uk " The Woodland Trust  a ,  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org " The Wildlife Trusts  a  and  a href="https:  www.rspca.org.uk " RSPCA  a . em    em   p 
 p In fact, it’s “widely recognised as the UK’s most popular wild animal”, according to PTES. In 2013 it topped a BBC Wildlife Magazine poll to become  a href="https:  www.theguardian.com environment 2013 jul 31 hedgehog-uk-natural-emblem" the natural emblem for the UK  a  sub 1  sub .  p 
 p Even so, like so many wild animal species on our planet — ( a href="https:  www.theguardian.com environment 2014 sep 29 earth-lost-50-wildlife-in-40-years-wwf" we’ve lost half of the world's wild animals in the last 40 years  a  sub 2  sub ) the humble hedgehog is under threat.  p 
 p Below we talk about:  p 
 p There may be  a href="https:  ptes.org campaigns hedgehogs conservation_strategy_for_hedgehogs " fewer than one million hedgehogs left in the UK  a  sub 3  sub , compared with  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org about-hedgehogs how-many-hedgehogs-are-left " around 1.5 million just over two decades ago  a  sub 4  sub . It's thought the UK hedgehog population has  a href="https:  www.woodlandtrust.org.uk visiting-woods trees-woods-and-wildlife animals mammals hedgehog ?gclid=Cj0KCQjw-JvaBRDGARIsAFjqkkpHj10pRg76ucGJ2-STqpqFA-oB4TSzzPSP_djd9TiMFQem2o95ge8aArhREALw_wcB&amp;gclsrc=aw.ds" declined by 30% since 2002  a  sub 5  sub .  a href="https:  www.theguardian.com environment 2018 feb 07 hedgehog-numbers-plummet-by-half-in-uk-countryside-since-2000" Other reports claim  a  sub 6  sub  hedgehog numbers have declined by half since 2000.  p 
 p The truth is, no-one really knows how many hedgehogs are left because of their solitary and nomadic nature, which makes them notoriously hard to monitor. The depletion of their numbers (which is happening faster in rural locations than urban) is largely due to four factors, according to  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org about-our-hedgehog-street-campaign stateof " The State of Britain’s Hedgehogs 2018  a  sub 7  sub :  p 
 p  img class="alignleft wp-image-328" src="https:  www.stowag.com wp wildcare wp-content uploads sites 2 2018 09 iStock-453078391-200x300.jpg" alt="" width="184" height="275"  strong  u Destruction of habitats  u   strong   p 
 p The destruction and fragmentation of hedgehogs’ natural habitats are due to changes in agriculture (intensive farming methods, land-use change) and urbanisation (more paving, fewer foraging areas in gardens, and more fences). The over- or under-management of hedges, an increase in field sizes can lead to the loss of entire hedgerows, which are an important source of food, nesting and protection from predators, as well as acting as corridors for movement.  p 
 p  strong  u Loss of prey  u   strong   p 
 p The widespread reduction in the abundance and diversity of invertebrates is also to blame. This reduction can be a direct result from the use of chemical treatments, such as insecticides and molluscicides, or an indirect result through the reduction of plant diversity and loss of habitat, such as hedgerows.  p 
 p  strong  u Predation  u   strong   p 
 p Badgers  em (Meles meles)   em are the main predators of hedgehogs. Badger numbers have actually increased in recent years, although it’s not thought this contributes to the decline of hedgehogs — hedgehogs are  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org farmersadvice " declining severely in parts of the country with low badger densities  a  sub 8  sub , such as East Anglia. But badgers also compete for food, such as worms and beetles, as do other invertebrate-eating animals.  p 
 p  strong  u On the roads  u   strong   p 
 p Around 100,000 hedgehogs are estimated to have been killed on rural roads due to increasing speed limits and lack of lighting, according to the 2018 report by PTES and BHPS.  p 
 p It is illegal to capture, mistreat or kill hedgehogs (using certain methods) and public bodies have a duty of responsibility towards them, according to  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org legal-protection " UK law  a  sub 9  sub .  p 
 p Hedgehogs are:  p 
 p Sadly, none of these laws prevents the primary drivers of their decline.  p 
 p There are more than 800 known wildlife rehabilitators that take in hedgehogs. The Hedgehog Street campaign has recruited 47,000 Hedgehog Champions. And, in 2013, it created its first Hedgehog Officer role. During their collective history, PTES and BHPS have launched a few surveys which have measured hibernation, population sizes in urban green spaces and the number of hedgehog deaths on our roads.  p 
 p The Wildlife Trusts are also raising funds across the country via their  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org adopt-animal adopt-hedgehog" adopt-a-hedgehog  a  programs. Each adoption costs around £25 and provides the gift buyer with a soft toy, various fact sheets and other related items. Funds raised by the charities go to supporting important local wildlife conservation work.  p 
 p Hedgehogs are under threat, but PTES and BHPS say that things could improve if we keep improving garden habitats and connectivity while monitoring numbers. Farmers and landowners can help, too, although many already take a sustainable approach to agriculture and receive funding from the  a href="https:  www.gov.uk government collections countryside-stewardship-get-paid-for-environmental-land-management" Countryside Stewardship Scheme  a  sub 10  sub  to that end. But, says PTES and BHPS in their guide,  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org farmersadvice " Helping hedgehogs on your land  a  sub 8  sub , “if hedgehogs are to thrive in our countryside they need a sustained effort from all of us”.  p 
 p Hedgehog-friendly actions that can be taken by farmers include increasing the density, connectivity and size of hedgerows and field margins, using no-till or conservation agriculture systems, and retaining areas of scrub and decaying vegetation.  p 
 p    p 
 p There are so many simple ways  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org what-do-if-you-find-wild-animal help-hedgehog" we can all help hedgehogs  a  sub 11  sub  and this doesn’t mean buying expensive equipment.  p 
 p  strong 1]  strong   strong Hedgehog highways  strong   p 
 p Collaborate with your neighbours to build a  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org help-hedgehogs link-your-garden " hedgehog highway  a  sub 12  sub  by cutting 13cm sup 2   sup (5in sup 2  sup ) holes in your fences or digging a channel or tunnel underneath walls. Hedgehogs need to roam far and wide for food and mates, so this helps them get about. You can buy an  a href="https:  www.wildcareshop.com 10692-eco-hedgehog-hole-plate.html" eco hedgehog hole plate  a  sub 13  sub  to protect your fence (and any shoddy DIY!). Some also include hedgehog signs to remind owners not to block the gap. (There are also red triangle hedgehog signs for roads, reminding drivers to take care of hedgehogs crossing). img class="alignright" src="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk media catalog product cache 2 image 500x500 9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95 1 0 10510.1.jpg" alt="Hedgehog Haus Protection Pack" width="269" height="269"   p 
 p  strong 2]  strong   strong Make, build or buy a home  strong   p 
 p The simplest way to make a habitat is to create a natural feature out of a compost heap or pile of logs or leaves in a quiet, undisturbed corner of your garden. You can build a hedgehog house (hibernaculum) for a hedgehog. There’s a handy poster here with lots of information about building homes from the  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org sites default files 2018-05 Hedgehogsml.jpg" Wildlife Trust  a  sub 14  sub , and another from  a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org wp-content uploads 2018 06 Hedgehog-Street-Hedgehog-houses-instructions-2018.pdf" Hedgehog Street  a  sub 15  sub . Or you can buy one of many  a href="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk wildlife-nest-boxes other-mammal-nest-boxes hedgehogs.html" hedgehog houses, domes, homes or nest boxes  a  sub 16  sub  that are available. Reputable brands to watch out for include Hogilo, Hogitat and Schwegler.  p 
 p 2a]  strong Dimensions   strong   p 
 p A hogbox should be around 40cm wide, 30cm tall and 26cm deep. Ideally, use untreated wood and no paint. Put a rock on top of the main living area of the box, but don’t screw the roof down so you can clean it in late March. To predator-proof, your hogbox, add a tunnel 13cm square (as in the Hedgehog Street link above).  p 
 p  strong 3]  strong   strong Make your garden safe  strong   p 
 p We can do this by avoiding the use of slug pellets, covering drains and gulies, and making a ramp or steps at the edges of ponds for them to climb out.  p 
 p  strong 4] Remember, remember  strong   p 
 p If you’re building or lighting a bonfire, spare a thought for hedgehogs. Don’t build a bonfire on top of a log or leaf pile as hedgehogs like to build their nests here. Always check it before lighting, and, if possible, build it on the day it’s going to be lit (to reduce the chance of nesting overnight).  p 
 p  strong 5] Keep it wild  strong   p 
 p Growing a wide variety of plants, and letting your garden grow wild, are the best ways to help lots of wildlife, like  a href="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk blog solitary-bees-8-facts-to-know-plus-an-identification-resource " solitary bees  a . For hedgehogs, it’s about creating homes for their prey, so make sure your garden has lots of  a href="http:  www.bbc.co.uk gardening basics techniques soil_usingmulches1.shtml" mulch beds  a  sub 17  sub , wood piles and or leaf litter as that’s where all these invertebrates live, like earthworms, woodlice, earwigs, centipedes, beetles and  a href="https:  www.rhs.org.uk advice profile?pid=651" leatherjackets  a  sub 18  sub  (the larval stage of crane flies or daddy-longlegs).  p 
 p  strong 6] Feeding stations img class="alignright" src="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk media catalog product cache 2 image 500x500 9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95 e c eco_hedgehog_feeding_station_1024x1024.jpg" alt="Eco Hedgehog Feeding Station" width="245" height="244"    strong   p 
 p You can set up a DIY feeding station by cutting a hedgehog-sized hole in a plastic storage box and weighing the lid down with bricks to stop larger wildlife from getting at it. Inside, put some cat and dog food, shop-bought hedgehog food or chopped boiled egg. Also, put down a bowl of water. Don’t feed them milk, bread or fish. Hedgehogs will only eat around 100g of pet food per night. You can also buy a  a href="https:  wildcareshop.com hedgehog-house-kit-11085.html" feeding station  a  sub 19  sub  and some special hedgehog food, as part of this  a href="https:  www.wildcareshop.com hedgehog-haus-protection-pack.html" hedgehog Haus protection pack  a  sub 20  sub .  p 
 p  strong NB  strong   a href="https:  www.hedgehogstreet.org forums topic what-can-i-feed-visiting-wild-hedgehogs-that-is-good-for-them " Don’t feed hedgehogs mealworms  a  sub 21  sub  as their main diet. Mealworms are high in phosphorous and low in calcium. If you only feed these to hedgehogs, they may develop metabolic bone disease as their bodies try to normalise the phosphorous by taking calcium from stores in their bones.  p 
 p  strong 7] Rescue &amp; care of a sick hedgehog  strong   p 
 p If you see a hedgehog out in the daytime or during winter it’s probably in distress.  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org what-do-if-you-find-wild-animal help-hedgehog" If you find a sick or injured hedgehog  a  sub 11  sub  you should contact the  a href="https:  www.britishhedgehogs.org.uk " BHPS  a  straight away. They may direct you to a local sanctuary shelter. Or, wearing gardening gloves, gently place it in a high-sided cardboard box lined with newspaper or a towel (so it can hide) and keep it in a quiet, warm place. You can provide water and meaty dog or cat food, but don’t feed it directly.  p 
 p Then call the BHPS on 01584 890 801 for some advice and to see if there’s a local rescue centre.  p 
 p    p 
 p Because of hedgehogs’ nocturnal wandering habits, it’s hard to spot them. But we can still monitor and track them using their footprints, poo and other signs. Here are a few ways to discover their presence:  p 
 p You can also buy a  a href="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk hedgehog-haus-protection-pack.html" gift-boxed starter pack  a  sub 28  sub  for protecting hedgehogs in your garden, which includes a shelter box, snack bowl, hedgehog guide and hedgehog food. strong    strong   p 
 p Here's a sum-up of ways to welcome hedgehogs into your neighbourhood in  a href="https:  www.wildlifetrusts.org sites default files 2018-05 16597-WAG-Hedgehog-16pp-Booklet16-7_004.png" another handy poster  a  sub 29   sub from Wildaboutgardens.org.uk, via The Wildlife Trusts.  p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p If you want to be the first to hear about our latest news, events and offers, register for our newsletter today  p 
 p  span We promise that we won't share your information with anybody. You can unsubscribe at any time, view our  a href="https:  www.wildcare.co.uk  wildcare-privacy" Privacy Policy  a .  span   p 
