 p Lion Country Safari offers individual annual memberships. At the cost of a bit more than two general admissions, you can receive unlimited visits to the park for a year, 20% off additional guest admissions, 20% off food purchases in our restaurant, 20% discount at our gift shops, free parking, Safari Day Camp discount and 10% discount on our award winning KOA campground daily rates.  a title="Plan Your Visit" href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com information hours-admission " For more information, click here.  a   p 
 p The best time to see the animals is when it is raining. The animals generally love the cooler, wet weather and tend to be more active during this time. If you are not interested in visiting the park during the rain, then we advise you to arrive early any day. Early morning is the second best time to visit as it tends to be a bit cooler and the animals are usually more active then.  p 
 p Lion Country Safari welcomes you to bring your favorite foods and dine in our outdoor picnic area located just inside “Safari World” walk-through park. No barbecues, please.  p 
 p Click on the link below, print the coupon, and present it at our ticket booths to receive the discounted admission for each person in your vehicle.  a href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com Coupons discount-coupon.php" target="_blank" Download discount coupon here.  a   p 
 p Lion Country Safari is pleased to assist many non-profit charitable organizations with their fundraising efforts.  a href="http:  lioncountrysafari.requestitem.com " target="_blank" To submit your donation request, click here for detailed instructions.  a   p 
 p Lion Country Safari offers animal feeding exhibits in our walk-through park, “Safari World,” for nominal fees. These include Giraffe Feeding Exhibit, Lory Bird Aviary, Koi Fish Pond, and Petting Zoo. These are the only animals which are available for public feeding, and only the foods purchased at the exhibits are permitted for these animals, since all of our animals are on special diets.  p 
 p Lion Country Safari offers discounted rates for groups of 10 or more (families, schools, scouts, youth groups, churches, etc…  a href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com groups group-sales tour-groups " For more information on the specific rates for your group, please click here.  a   p 
 p Our facility is handicap accessible. In the drive-through section, you will be in your own vehicle, or in one of our rental vans (if you choose to rent). The walk-through area is either concrete walkways or boardwalks. There are no stairs. Access to our picnic area may involve going over a short grassy area. The petting zoo is served by ramps which are accessible by wheelchair; however, there is a double gate system to keep the animals in, which would require some assistance to the wheelchair person. Also the floor (surface) of the petting zoo is compacted dirt. If we have had rain, the surface softens up and it may be difficult for a wheelchair to maneuver. The animals in the petting zoo sometimes get excited and raise their front legs up onto people.  p 
 p Adjacent to Lion Country Safari is an award-winning KOA campground where you can awake to the sounds of roaring lions. For information call (561) 793-9797 or reservations at (800) 561-9115.  a title="Hotels" href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com hotels " If not looking for this adventurous stay, click here for a list of nearby hotels.  a   p 
 p Car rentals are available through Sixt Rent a Car.  a title="Sixt Rent a Car" href="https:  www.sixt.com car-rental usa florida" target="_blank" Click here for Florida locations  a .  a href="https:  www.sixt.com specials car-rental-coupons " target="_blank" Click here for discount offers.  a   p 
 p Lion Country Safari is home to over 1000 WILD animals and 95 species including Lions, Giraffe, Zebras, Rhinos, Chimpanzees and much more.  p 
 p We recommend at least five hours to fully enjoy Lion Country Safari. Allow one and a half hours to drive through the four-mile preserve and at least three and a half hours in the walk-through.  p 
 p Service animals specifically trained to aid a person with a disability are welcome. Please stop into the main office upon arrival so we may alert our wildlife team and walk through staff of a service animal entering the park. While Emotional Support Animals or Comfort Animals are often used as part of a medical treatment plan as therapy animals, they are not considered service animals under the ADA.  p 
 p  em Service animals may not  em  enter interactive exhibits including Lories, budgies or petting zoo. These species view dogs as a predator and may become extremely distressed in the presence of a dog.  p 
 p No, we do not allow pets into the park. We have free kennels (with a refundable $5.00 deposit) available for your use. Please stop in at the office before you go through the ticket booth. We do not know how your pet may react to our animals and how our animals may react to your pet.  p 
 p We have a covered picnic area. Tables are available on a first-come, first-served basis. We also have a pavilion that is available only by renting it in advance. Contact  a href="mailto:events@lioncountrysafari.com" events@lioncountrysafari.com  a  for more information.  p 
 p One of the great things about Lion Country Safari is that you receive two parks for one price. Although you are welcome to visit only one park, the cost remains the same.  p 
 p Lion Country Safari offers a cafeteria-style restaurant, a Carvel® ice cream stand and a concession stand.  a title="SafariWorld Dining" href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com attractions walk-through-safari safariworld-dining " For more information, click here.  a   p 
 p Yes. Some of the rides you will encounter in our walk-through safari are a toddler train ride, animal carousel, pontoon boat tour, paddle boats, and flying elephant ride.  p 
 p With the exception of a few coin-operated rides, Lion Country Safari rides are included with your admission.  p 
 p Lion Country Safari contributes to the research on chimps in conjunction with the Jane Goodall ChimpanZoo volunteer program.  a title="Chimpanzoo" href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com chimpanzoo " To learn more or to become a participant, click here.  a   p 
 p We offer a 4,000 square-foot water spray ground with 23 interactive water features located in our walk-through, “Safari World.” The area is surrounded with chaise lounge seating and umbrellas so you can relax and observe the fun.  p 
 p Lion Country Safari is always open, rain or shine.  a href="http:  www.weather.com weather today Loxahatchee+FL+33470?lswe=33470&amp;lwsa=WeatherLocalUndeclared&amp;from=whatwhere" target="_blank" Click here for an up-to-date weather report in our area.  a   p 
 p Lion Country Safari general admission covers our four-mile drive-through safari where you will encounter over 1,000 WILD animals from all around the world, and our walk-through “Safari World” which includes rides, games, animal exhibits, four interactive feeding exhibits, a water play area, Animal Theater, picnic area, restaurant, gift shops and more.  p 
 p The lions are fed right before we open the gates at 9:30 am. The hoofstock, which includes most of the other animals, are fed at various times throughout the day.  p 
 p Smoking is only allowed in guest vehicles and in the main parking lot of “Safari World”, our walk-through amusement park. Guests are welcome to return to these designated areas and back to the park as often as they would like. This policy is in place for the health and comfort of our guests, animals, and staff.  p 
 p Loxahatchee is located 20 miles West of downtown West Palm Beach, Florida.  a title="Plan Your Visit" href="https:  www.lioncountrysafari.com information hours-admission " target="_blank" Click here for specific directions.  a   p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p    p 
 p  em We recommend 4-5 hours br 
to see everything.  em  br  br   p 
 p  strong Every Day:  strong   p 
 p  br *Check the Safari World Entertainment Tab for opening times of rides &amp; encounters. br 
 br  strong Admission (per person plus tax):  strong  br 
Regular (ages 10-64): $37.00 br 
Seniors (ages 65 and over): $33.00 br 
Children (ages 3-9): $28.00 br 
Toddlers (ages 0-2): FREE br 
Parking: $8 per vehicle  p 
 p Do you love animals? Do you love working with the public? Check out our current job openings by clicking the button below.  p 
 p  br 
  p 
 p  strong Receive free parking  strong  (online sales only).   p 
 p Download our Wild Coupon and br 
Save Big on a Big Safari Adventure!  p 
 p Download our Wild Coupon and Save Big on a Big Safari Adventure!  p 
 p Everything you need to plan your visit is right here: Directions, park rules, what  to bring on safari and available rentals.  p 
 p 
							 span 2003 Lion Country Safari Road, Loxahatchee, FL 33470 br (c) 1996-2015 Lion Country Safari, Inc.- Florida©. All Rights Reserved. Do not copy or redistribute in any form.  span 
						  p 
