 p  strong  span id="ref24435"   span Perissodactyl  strong ,  any member of the order Perissodactyla, a group of herbivorous  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal mammal" class="md-crosslink" mammals  a  characterized by the possession of either one or three hoofed toes on each hindfoot. They include the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal horse" class="md-crosslink" horses  a ,  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal ass" class="md-crosslink" asses  a , and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal zebra" class="md-crosslink" zebras  a , the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal tapir" class="md-crosslink" tapirs  a , and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal rhinoceros-mammal" class="md-crosslink" rhinoceroses  a . The name—from Greek  em perissos  em , “odd,” and  em daktylos  em , “finger”—was introduced to separate the odd-toed ungulates from the even-toed ones ( a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal artiodactyl" class="md-crosslink" Artiodactyla  a ), all of which had previously been classified as members of a single group.  p 
 p The Perissodactyla  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary comprise" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="comprise" comprise  a  three families of living mammals: six species of horses (Equidae), four species of tapirs (Tapiridae), and five species of rhinoceroses (Rhinocerotidae). These families are remnants of a group that flourished during the Paleogene and Neogene periods (from 65.5 million to 2.6 million years ago), a time when it was much richer in species and in variety of form than at present and played a dominant role in the fauna of the world. Today there are far fewer species of perissodactyls than artiodactyls, and most of the species still living are endangered, especially the rhinoceroses, the tapirs, and two of the three species of zebras.  p 
 p The horses, asses, and zebras are long-legged, running forms with one functional digit in each foot and with high-crowned, molariform (i.e., modified for grinding) cheek teeth. The tapir is a rather rounded, piglike, semiamphibious forest and woodland  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal animal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" animal  a  with a small proboscis (trunklike snout) and a coat of short, bristly hairs. Tapirs have primitive features, such as four hoofed toes in the forefoot and three in the hind, and they have rather simple molar teeth. Rhinoceroses are massive creatures with a thick and nearly hairless hide, excepting the hairy Sumatran rhinoceros, and three digits on each foot. They bear hornlike structures on the head.  p 
 p The Perissodactyla are of particular scientific interest because their fossil history is so well known. The evolution of horses from the tiny “ span id="ref24442"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal dawn-horse" class="md-crosslink" dawn horse  a ” ( em Hyracotherium  em , formerly  em Eohippus  em ) to the present form is a classic sequence, knowledge of which has played an important role in evolutionary thought. The order also provides a notable example of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science parallel-evolution" class="md-crosslink autoxref" parallel evolution  a . Following completely different evolutionary paths, both perissodactyls and artiodactyls (e.g., cattle, antelope, swine) independently evolved features such as high-crowned grinding teeth and elongated limbs with a reduced number of digits, in  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary adaptation" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="adaptation" adaptation  a  to a similar running (cursorial), herbivorous mode of life.  p 
 p Living perissodactyls are of medium or large size. Asses and tapirs, the smallest representatives of the order, attain a length of approximately 2 to 2.5 metres (6.6 to 8.2 feet), stand 1 metre or more at the shoulder, and weigh up to 250 or 300 kg (550 to 660 pounds). The largest forms are the  span id="ref1113953"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Indian-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" Indian  a  and  span id="ref1113960"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal white-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" square-lipped rhinoceroses  a  ( em Rhinoceros unicornis  em  and  em Ceratotherium simum  em , respectively), which are 4 to 5 metres (13 to 16.4 feet) long, measure up to 2 metres at the shoulder, and often weigh more than 1,600 kg (3,500 pounds).  em  span id="ref24444"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Indricotherium" class="md-crosslink" Indricotherium  a   em  (or  em Paraceratherium  em , formerly  em Baluchitherium  em ), known as the giraffe rhinoceros from the Oligocene (about 30 million years ago), was the largest known land  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal mammal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" mammal  a , standing about 5.5 metres (18 feet) at the shoulder.  p 
 p All feed either by grazing (i.e., cropping grasses) or by browsing (taking shoots and leaves from trees and bushes). The  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal equine" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Equidae  a  in particular were abundant and important members of the Old World fauna until their numbers were reduced by modern man. Zebras are still numerous and ecologically important in a few parts of Africa. The importance of the domestic horse and the ass in the history of humankind is very great indeed. Both have served extensively as pack, draft, and riding animals. The horse is sometimes eaten by humans, and its flesh is widely used as pet food. Through centuries of domestication, it has been developed into a number of different breeds (for more information on domesticated horses,  em see  em   a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal horse" class="md-crosslink" horse  a ).  p 
 p The living wild Equidae are confined to the Old World. Zebras and the true  span id="ref24445"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal African-wild-ass" class="md-crosslink" wild ass  a  ( em Equus asinus  em ) are African, with the zebras confined to the southern and eastern parts, while the ass originally ranged over northern and northeastern Africa.  p 
 p The wild horse ( em Equus caballus  em ), ancestor of the domestic horse, occupied the low country north of the great mountain ranges from Europe across central Asia; it may now be extinct as a wild animal. The  span id="ref24447"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Asiatic-wild-ass" class="md-crosslink" half-asses  a , races of  em E. hemionus  em , were found in the arid zone of Asia from Persia to the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Gobi" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Gobi Desert  a , as well as in Arabia, Syria, and northwestern India.  p 
 p The living rhinoceroses are also Old World forms, with two species in Africa and three in Asia. There are three species of tapirs in the New World tropics, one in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Middle-America" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Middle America  a  and two in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place South-America" class="md-crosslink autoxref" South America  a . The fourth species of tapir is Asiatic.  p 
 p The Equidae are highly specialized for a cursorial, herbivorous mode of life. They are absent from forests and other densely vegetated regions, but, apart from this limitation, the range of the group is relatively unrestricted by the type of vegetation, climate, and  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary topography" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="topography" topography  a . The species replace one another geographically for the most part, and each occupies a somewhat different habitat.  p 
 p Grass plays a major role in the diet; the zebras, for example, are known to feed on tall, coarse grasses avoided by most antelopes. Some species also take shrubs, herbs, and even bulbs. Water requirements vary in different species. In  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place South-Africa" class="md-crosslink autoxref" South Africa  a  the plains zebra has been found to drink about once every 36 hours. By contrast, the  span id="ref24448"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal mountain-zebra" class="md-crosslink" mountain zebra  a  ( em Equus zebra  em ),  span id="ref239649"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Przewalskis-horse" class="md-crosslink" Przewalski’s horse  a  ( em Equus caballus przewalskii  em ) and the half-ass, all living in semidesert areas, are reported to survive if they can drink once in three or four days. The ass too can manage with less water than the horse. The mountain zebra and Przewalski’s horse dig for water in dry riverbeds and depressions.  p 
 p The mountain zebra occupies parts of the arid rocky escarpment separating the interior plateau of the southern African subcontinent from the coast lowlands. The race  em E. zebra hartmannae  em , still relatively numerous over much of its original range in Namibia and southern Angola, enjoys legal protection and is represented in game reserves. Conflict between these zebras and farm livestock for the meagre pasture of the semidesert regions, however, has led to a reduction in zebra numbers. The race  em E. zebra zebra  em  was originally common in the mountain ranges of the Cape region but now survives only as a remnant of perhaps 100 animals. About one-half of these have sanctuary in a  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science national-park" class="md-crosslink autoxref" national park  a .  p 
 p The  span id="ref1113957"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal plains-zebra" class="md-crosslink" plains zebra  a  ( em E. quagga  em ) formerly inhabited a great area of grassland and savanna from the Cape to  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place South-Sudan" class="md-crosslink autoxref" South Sudan  a . The southernmost race ( em E. quagga quagga  em ), which was only partly striped, became extinct in the 19th century. The populations of the other races have been much reduced in many places, and the range of the species has shrunk considerably. There are large populations in reserves, however, and the species is not in any immediate danger of extermination.  p 
 p  span id="ref239651"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Grevys-zebra" class="md-crosslink" Grevy’s zebra  a  ( em E. grevyi  em ), which shares a narrow zone in northern Kenya with the plains zebra, is confined to sparsely wooded, semidesert plains and low hills in northern Kenya, southern and eastern Ethiopia, and western Somaliland. Its status appears to be generally satisfactory.  p 
 p The true ass ( em Equus asinus  em ), ancestor of the domestic  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal donkey" class="md-crosslink autoxref" donkey  a , is the equid of arid  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place North-Africa" class="md-crosslink autoxref" North Africa  a  whose range extends south to approximately 6° N latitude. Its natural distribution probably included all habitable parts of North Africa. At present, asses are known from semidesert country extending from the east bank of the Nile (in Sudan) to the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Red-Sea" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Red Sea  a  and in parts of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia. There are also isolated pockets in the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Tibesti" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Tibesti Mountains  a  in the Sahara and in the countries of central and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place western-Africa" class="md-crosslink autoxref" western Africa  a . There is a great deal of uncertainty about the identity of all asses now described as “wild.” Some may be merely feral (escaped or released) donkeys, and interbreeding with feral donkeys is likely to have occurred in many, if not all, existing populations.  p 
 p The wild horse was widely distributed in Eurasia north of the mountain chains. The Romans encountered it in Spain. Two races have survived to modern times. A gray race, known as the  span id="ref239652"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal tarpan" class="md-crosslink" tarpan  a , was the horse of southern Russia. It became extinct in Ukraine during the mid-19th century. The endangered Przewalski’s horse ( em E. caballus przewalskii  em ), a small reddish brown race (considered a species by some authors), was last seen in the wild in 1968 in the remote semidesert steppe country on the boundary between Mongolia and China. Wild horses enjoy legal protection in Mongolia and China, but nomadic pastoralists have been  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary encroaching" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="encroaching" encroaching  a  on previously uninhabited country and competing with the horses for pasture and the scarce water supplies.  p 
 p The half-asses, races of  em Equus hemionus  em , occupied the dry belt from Mongolia through central Asia to Syria, with a northern limit at about 50° N latitude. The chigetia or  span id="ref239653"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal kulan" class="md-crosslink" kulan  a  ( em E. hemionus hemionus  em ), which was formerly widespread over an immense region of the Gobi, now occurs only in semidesert steppe country in central Mongolia. Hunting and competition for water by pastoral tribesmen are responsible for its decline. The kulan is slightly smaller than the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal kiang" class="md-crosslink autoxref" kiang  a  ( em E. hemionus kiang  em ), which is found on the cold arid steppes of Nepal, Sikkim, and western Tibet at altitudes of 4,270 metres (14,000 feet) and more. The kiang is now said to be rare but not endangered. The Persian  span id="ref239654"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal onager-mammal" class="md-crosslink" onager  a  ( em E. hemionus onager  em ) lives in a lower semidesert or desert  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary environment" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="environment" environment  a , with a range that formerly included northeastern Iran, northwestern Afghanistan, and Russian Turkestan. It is now extremely rare and unlikely to survive outside northeastern Iran and the Badkhyz Reserve in Turkmeniya. A small nucleus has sanctuary in the semidesert salt plains of the Kavir Protected Region in Iran. The Indian wild ass is a closely related, probably identical, form sometimes distinguished as the race  em E. hemionus khur  em . A fairly small population occupies salt flats in the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Rann-of-Kachchh" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Rann of Kutch  a , a remnant of the thousands found there at the end of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com event World-War-II" class="md-crosslink autoxref" World War II  a . The Syrian onager ( em E. hemionus hemippus  em ) is the smallest member of the group and stands about one metre (three feet) at the shoulder. It was once found in the desert region of Palestine, Syria, and Iraq, and was domesticated by the ancient Sumerians before the introduction of the domestic horse into Mesopotamia. This race may survive in the Djezireh Desert, Syria, or north of the Syrian-Turkish border; if so, the number must be extremely small.  p 
 p The two African species of rhinoceroses are the  span id="ref239655"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal black-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" black  a  or  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal black-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink autoxref" prehensile-lipped rhinoceros  a  ( em Diceros bicornis  em ) and the  span id="ref239656"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal white-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" white  a  or  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal white-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink autoxref" square-lipped rhinoceros  a  ( em Ceratotherium simum  em ). The terms  em black  em  and  em white  em  are misleading, since both species are grayish to brownish, but the names are well established in common usage.  p 
 p The black rhinoceros was originally widespread from the Cape to southwestern Angola and throughout  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place eastern-Africa" class="md-crosslink autoxref" eastern Africa  a  as far as Somalia, parts of Ethiopia, and Sudan. Its range also extended westward through the northern savanna zone to  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Lake-Chad" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Lake Chad  a , northern Cameroon, northern Nigeria,  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Burkina-Faso" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Burkina Faso  a ,  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Cote-dIvoire" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Côte d’Ivoire  a , and possibly Guinea. The animal was extremely numerous in some parts. It now occupies a much smaller area, within which it is found in scattered pockets, many of them in parks and reserves. The species still occurs in Namibia, Angola, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania, Kenya, Botswana, and Swaziland. South Africa and Namibia have more black rhinos than other countries, but the future of the animals outside parks and reserves is far from secure. The decline in numbers is largely the result of expanding human settlement and of poaching to obtain the horns, which fetch high prices.  p 
 p The black rhinoceros occupies a variety of habitats, frequenting open plains, sparse  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science thorn-forest" class="md-crosslink autoxref" thorn scrub  a , savannas, thickets, and dry forests, as well as mountain forests and moorlands at high altitudes. It is a selective browser, and grass plays a minor role in its diet. Succulent plants, such as euphorbias, assume great importance in dry habitats, and the animals appear to be able to survive without free water where these plants are abundant. Where water is available, drinking is regular and frequent; the animals also may dig for water in dry riverbeds.  p 
 p The much larger white rhinoceros is a grazing species with a broad square muzzle. It prefers short grasses 7 to 10 cm (about 3 to 4 inches) high. The animal makes much use of shade trees for resting and is dependent on surface water. The range of the white rhinoceros is markedly discontinuous. South of the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Zambezi-River" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Zambezi River  a  it was once extremely common over a fairly large area of bushveld. It has since become confined to the game reserves in South Africa, where the population has risen; some of the animals have been redistributed to several other parks and reserves in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Southern-Africa" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Southern Africa  a .  p 
 p A northern race formerly inhabited South Sudan and  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary adjacent" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="adjacent" adjacent  a  areas of Uganda and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Democratic-Republic-of-the-Congo" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Democratic Republic of the Congo  a , extending westward into the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Central-African-Republic" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Central African Republic  a . It has also been much reduced and is considered probably extinct in those countries. A small number were moved to a private reserve in Kenya.  p 
 p The smallest of the three Asian rhinoceroses (also the smallest living member of the family) is the Sumatran, or Asiatic,  span id="ref239657"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Sumatran-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" two-horned rhinoceros  a ,  em Didermocerus  em  (or  em Dicerorhinus  em )  em sumatrensis  em , standing 1 to 1.5 metres (3 to 5 feet) at the shoulder. It was originally found in the foothills of the eastern Himalayas, mainland  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Southeast-Asia" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Southeast Asia  a , and the islands of Sumatra and Borneo. Small isolated populations still occur in a few widely separated localities in (Myanmar) Burma, Thailand, West (Peninsular) Malaysia, Sumatra, and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place East-Malaysia" class="md-crosslink autoxref" East Malaysia  a  (Sabah) and possibly in other nearby territories. The total population is thought to number between 100 and 170. Some of the survivors in Sumatra are protected in reserves.  p 
 p Both the Sumatran and Javan rhinoceroses inhabit forests as well as marshy areas and regions of thick bush and bamboo, climbing actively in mountainous country. They are mainly browsers. The  span id="ref1113955"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Javan-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink" Javan  a , or lesser one-horned, rhinoceros ( em Rhinoceros sondaicus  em ) occupied the islands of Java, Borneo, and Sumatra, the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Malay-Peninsula" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Malay Peninsula  a , and a region extending northward through Myanmar into Assam and eastern Bengal. It is now restricted to the Udjung-Kulon Reserve in western Java, where there are at least 25 and perhaps as many as 50 to 60 animals.  p 
 p The great Indian, or one-horned, rhinoceros ( em Rhinoceros unicornis  em ) is more or less equivalent in size to the square-lipped rhinoceros and is distinguishable from the smaller  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Javan-rhinoceros" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Javan rhinoceros  a  by the presence of a large horn, tubercles on its skin, and a different arrangement of skin folds. It previously occupied an extensive range across northern India and Nepal from Assam in the east to the Indus valley in the west. It is found in a range of habitats—open grassland, savanna, forests, and hilly country—and appears to be mainly a grazer, raiding grain fields in some areas. Hunting and the pressure of expanding human populations have greatly reduced both the range and numbers of this animal. It is now found almost entirely in eight reserves or sanctuaries in India, notably the Kaziranga Sanctuary in Assam (estimated population 300) and in the Rapti valley region of the Nepal Tarai. The total population is estimated at about 600 animals, and the prospects for survival appear to be reasonably good.  p 
 p The  span id="ref239659"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Malayan-tapir" class="md-crosslink" Malayan tapir  a  ( em Tapirus indicus  em ), largest member of the family Tapiridae, is found in Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula, as far north as the Myanmar-Thailand border in latitude 18° N. It is found from  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science sea-level" class="md-crosslink autoxref" sea level  a  to high altitudes and occupies forests and thickets but may feed in more open areas. It is still abundant and widespread.  p 
 p The three New World species occupy distinct, nonoverlapping but  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary contiguous" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="contiguous" contiguous  a  ranges. The  span id="ref239660"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal mountain-tapir" class="md-crosslink" mountain tapir  a  ( em Tapirus pinchaque  em ), the smallest and most primitive, inhabits the temperate-zone forests and bordering grasslands of the Andes in Colombia and Ecuador and in northern Peru, up to altitudes of nearly 4,600 metres (about 15,000 feet). Agricultural and pastoral expansion resulted in some decline in the status of this species, but it is still fairly common. The  span id="ref239661"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Central-American-tapir" class="md-crosslink" Central American  a , or Baird’s, tapir ( em T. bairdii  em ) is the largest of the American species. It is essentially Middle American, with a range extending from Mexico into coastal Ecuador, and it occupies undisturbed climax rainforest. It is shy and adjusts poorly to the disturbance caused by settlement. This disturbance, together with the destruction of habitat accompanying human occupation, has greatly reduced its range and numbers. The species is said to be much in need of active conservation. The most widespread species is the  span id="ref239662"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal lowland-tapir" class="md-crosslink" Brazilian tapir  a  ( em T. terrestris  em ), which is found throughout the Brazilian subregion east of the Andes and in a small area west of the Andes in northwestern Venezuela and northern Colombia. Like the other species, it is largely a forest form requiring the proximity of water. The three New World tapirs are mainly browsers and are remarkably similar in habits.  p 
 p The Equidae communicate by means of calls and changes in facial expression. Six different sounds are made by the plains zebra. A whinny, consisting of a series of two- or three-syllabic “ha” sounds, serves to maintain contact between members of a group. The  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary repertoire" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="repertoire" repertoire  a  includes an alarm call (“i-ha”), an alarm snort, a drawn-out snort of satisfaction, and a squeal of pain and fear. Other species utter similar sounds, the whinny of the horse and the bray of the ass being well-known examples. Characteristic facial expressions have been described for greeting ceremonies (mouth open, ears up), threat (mouth open, ears back), and submission (mouth open, nibbling movements, ears down). In all species studied except the horse, females assume a particular expression (“mating face”) when permitting the male to mount.  p 
 p In the rhinoceroses and tapirs, snorting, squealing, bellowing, and, in some forms, whistling sounds play a major role in communication. Visual signals are not well developed in these nonsocial animals, but a few facial expressions are used.  p 
 p The Perissodactyla are mainly grazers or browsers. The quality and quantity of grasses available to grazing species may vary considerably with the season and the area. The animals may accordingly move great distances to reach attractive sources of food. Migrations of  span id="ref1113958"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal plains-zebra" class="md-crosslink" plains zebras  a  to succulent pastures during the rainy season are a feature of the Serengeti Plains and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Etosha-National-Park" class="md-crosslink autoxref" Etosha National Park  a  in Africa. The distribution of asses, half-asses, and horses inhabiting arid areas largely follows that of rainfall and pasture.  p 
 p The food of the browsers is fairly readily available throughout the year; thus, species in this category are relatively sedentary. The browsing rhinoceroses may break down trees and shrubs, and use their forelimbs to help get at otherwise inaccessible leaves and twigs. Food is plucked with the lips. In the tapirs, the upper lip is fused with the short proboscis. The rhinoceroses (excluding the white) have a pointed upper lip with a fingerlike process that is used to pluck leaves and twigs. The white rhinoceros, with its broad square muzzle, is the most specialized grazing rhinoceros, feeding on grass.  p 
 p In both the mountain and plains zebras the family group is the basic social unit. It generally consists of a single adult male and two or three adult females with their foals. The groups are stable, apparently because of strong mutual ties among the females rather than because of herding by the male. The stallion is dominant, and there is a  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary hierarchy" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="hierarchy" hierarchy  a  among the mares, the highest ranking (alpha) animal usually leading the group. Other males are either solitary or live in bachelor groups of two or three, sometimes up to 10. Juveniles leave the family group when they attain sexual maturity at one and one-half to two years. When large aggregations occur on favoured grazing grounds, the groups retain their identity. Among Grevy’s zebras and wild asses, territorial males and groups of mares and foals and of stallions are found. There is no evidence for  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science territorial-behaviour" class="md-crosslink autoxref" territorial behaviour  a  among any of the zebras except Grevy’s. Individual groups occupy home ranges that overlap to some degree with those of other groups.  p 
 p The social organization of other equids is not as well documented. Observers studying the wild horse and half-asses have noted that females and juveniles form a group dominated by a single stallion, which keeps them together by active herding; the unattached males are solitary or live in small herds.  p 
 p The pattern of social organization among the rhinoceroses is quite different from that of the Equidae. Dominant adult males of the white rhinoceros occupy territories that, in the KwaZulu-Natal reserves, average about 200 hectares (500 acres). Within its area a male may tolerate subadult or aged bulls, which have subordinate status. Adult females accompanied by their calves inhabit home ranges  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary encompassing" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="encompassing" encompassing  a  the territories of six or seven dominant bulls. Juveniles consort with other juveniles or with calfless females, but groups of more than two usually do not stay together long.  p 
 p The black rhinoceros is basically solitary. Adults of both sexes usually occupy home ranges of 1,000 hectares (2,500 acres) or more, the size depending on the characteristics of the environment; occasionally the ranges may be as small as 200 hectares, however. There is a good deal of overlap in the utilization of these home ranges.  p 
 p The Asiatic rhinoceroses also are essentially solitary, but detailed information on the nature of the areas they inhabit is not available. Individual great Indian rhinoceroses are said to occupy tracts as small as 8 to 20 hectares (20 to 50 acres).  p 
 p Little is known about the social organization or territorial behaviour of the tapirs. All species are reported to be found alone or in pairs.  p 
 p Male zebras and horses follow mares in estrus. The stallion, after smelling the spot where a mare has urinated or defecated, exhibits “ span id="ref239665"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science flehmen" class="md-crosslink" flehmen  a ” (a characteristic display in which the head is lifted and the upper lip raised) and then urinates or defecates on the same spot. In similar fashion, members of stallion groups often urinate or defecate consecutively; communal dung heaps formed by five to eight animals often arise in this way. The significance of such behaviour is not clear.  p 
 p Among the Rhinocerotidae excretory products play an important role in marking territories and home ranges. Dominant male white rhinoceroses defecate almost entirely on heaps within their territories. They then scatter the  span id="ref239666"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science feces" class="md-crosslink" material  a  by kicking vigorously, presumably leaving an individual scent mark in this manner. In addition, they urinate in a ritualized fashion, spraying the  span id="ref239667"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science urine" class="md-crosslink" urine  a  in powerful jets in a manner peculiar to them and shown by no other sex or age group. Other members of the population also use dung heaps (either in territories or in communal areas, such as along paths) but not exclusively, and they do not scatter dung.  p 
 p In the black rhinoceros, dung-scattering behaviour does not appear to be  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary exclusive" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="exclusive" exclusive  a  to dominant males. The function of the communal heaps may be mainly to establish the presence of the inhabitant in his home range, and to maintain contact between known animals.  p 
 p Dung heaps and urine spraying are also observed among other species of rhinoceroses and among tapirs; their significance is presumably of a similar nature.  p 
 p The pattern of fighting is related to the amount of lethal equipment the various groups possess. The Equidae, unarmoured, do not employ stylized fighting techniques to reduce the danger of serious injury—as among certain other species. Fighting is largely confined to adult males competing for estrous mares. Various techniques occur in the zebras, which may serve as an example of the family. Circling, neck fighting, biting (either in a standing or sitting position), rearing combined with biting and kicking, and kicking on the run all are used, either alone or in combination. No set pattern is followed.  p 
 p Fights among rhinoceroses consist of charges and striking with the horns, usually accompanied by vocal threats. Goring is not common, the stylized pattern having probably been evolved to minimize the danger of serious injury from the  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary formidable" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="formidable" formidable  a  horns.  p 
 p Mutual  span id="ref239668"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic cleaning-behaviour" class="md-crosslink" grooming  a  is well known among horses. Two animals stand facing in opposite directions and groom each other by nibbling at the root of the tail and the base of the neck. The plains zebra behaves similarly and so, presumably, do other members of the family.  p 
 p Zebras greet each other simply by nose-to-nose contact, except that adult stallions go through a ceremony involving nose-to-genital contact. Nose-to-nose greeting is also characteristic of tapirs and rhinoceroses. The latter also rub their bodies together.  p 
 p Courtship is relatively simple among the social equids. The  span id="ref239671"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal African-wild-ass" class="md-crosslink" true ass  a  is apparently exceptional. The partners are strangers when the first approaches are made and the female requires violent subjugation by the male, which bites, kicks, and chases her before she will stand for him. This may be the result of separation of the sexes outside the mating season. The wild horse and the plains zebra are not at all violent. The stallion often grooms the mare before attempting to mount. The estrous mare (especially, or exclusively, young mares in the case of the plains zebra) adopts a typical posture with legs slightly apart, tail lifted, and, except in the horse, a characteristic facial expression (the “mating face” already mentioned).  p 
 p The more or less solitary rhinoceroses and tapirs go through a more elaborate courtship, presumably because the partners are strangers. After a chase, the male and female may engage in low-intensity fighting, ending with the male laying his head on the female’s rump and then mounting and copulating for an extended period. Several males may mate with an estrous female.  p 
 p The perissodactyls bear well-developed (precocial) young, usually a single offspring. After the mother has assisted in removing the placenta and has licked her offspring in the usual mammalian fashion, the young animal soon attempts to stand. A plains zebra foal has been observed to stand quite firmly 14 minutes after birth, and a black rhinoceros calf 25 minutes after birth.  p 
 p Newly born equids follow any nearby object during the first few days of life. At this time, zebra mares drive away all other zebras from their foals. The behaviour ensures that the foal will form a bond with its mother during the initial period of imprinting. Foals follow their mothers closely and are groomed frequently.  p 
 p Although precocial, black rhinoceros calves appear to have a lying-out period; that is, an initial period when they rest quietly in thick cover except when being suckled. Thereafter they follow their mothers closely. A young white rhinoceros tends to walk ahead of the mother and may be guided by her horn.  p 
 p Most young perissodactyls remain with their mothers until the next offspring is born. A young rhinoceros may, therefore, accompany its mother until it is two and one-half years old or older. Although grazing starts early, suckling proceeds for a considerable time, perhaps for its psychological rather than its physiological value.  p 
 p As in other mammals, play is a prominent form of behaviour among young perissodactyls. Zebras up to the age of one year frequently engage in running games. Foals gallop wildly about on their own, jumping and kicking up their heels, sometimes chasing other animals, such as gazelles, mongooses, or birds. In groups they play catching games, running after one another in close succession. Mock fighting sometimes takes place. Groups of adults have also been seen to chase foal groups in play, and indeed stallion groups carry out playful gallops. Stallions also engage in play greeting and in mock fights.  p 
 p Playful romping and mock fighting with the horns are common among rhinoceros calves. Young tapirs play running games.  p 
 p Behaviour for the care of the body is widespread among the perissodactyls. Equids frequently roll in dry, loose soil forming rolling hollows—a common feature of zebra country.  p 
 p Wallowing, which may help regulate body temperature, probably is mainly a form of self-grooming; it is practiced by all species of rhinoceroses. They often spend hours lying in pools during the middle of the day in hot weather. Mud of suitable consistency induces wallowing, which may be followed by sand bathing. Prolonged rubbing on tree trunks or suitable stumps follows a wallow; old rubbing stumps and stones may take on a shine from repeated use.  p 
 p Tapirs may have the most pronounced tendency to bathe and wallow, but few details of their behaviour are known. They are also said to enter water when disturbed.  p 
 p Female equids of all the species for which information is available attain puberty at about one year, but are not normally successfully mated before the age of two to two and one-half years, and possibly as late as three to four years in the case of  span id="ref239673"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal Grevys-zebra" class="md-crosslink" Grevy’s zebra  a . Zebras probably breed until about 20 years of age. The domestic species are seasonally polyestrous (repeatedly fertile), coming into breeding condition in spring and, unless mated, undergoing repeated estrous cycles at intervals of approximately three weeks until the end of the summer. The wild species studied also tend to mate seasonally; most young are born in spring and summer.  p 
 p The gestation period of equids is between 11 and 12 months. In most species a postpartum estrus occurs, usually within two weeks of the birth of the young; thus, the maximal potential  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science birth-rate" class="md-crosslink autoxref" reproductive rate  a  is one young per year. This potential is not always attained. Only about 50 percent of domestic mares that are mated produce foals, and nearly half of a study group of  span id="ref1113959"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal plains-zebra" class="md-crosslink" plains zebra  a   mares bore only one foal in three years.  p 
 p The gestation period of three species of rhinoceroses is about 15 to 17 months. For the Sumatran rhinoceros the period is said to be only seven months. No information is available for the Javan rhinoceros. Female white and black rhinoceroses attain sexual maturity at the age of four to five years and are capable of calving at intervals of approximately 2  span class="md-fraction md-fraction-oblique"  span  sup 1  sup   sub 2  sub   span   span  years. Rhinoceroses probably breed until between 30 and 40 years old. The white tends to have a mating peak in spring, corresponding with the flush of green grass, and a calving peak in autumn.  p 
 p The Malayan and Brazilian tapirs have gestation periods of 13 months’ duration. The Brazilian tapir is reported to mate before the onset of the rainy season.  p 
 p 
            We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
          p 
 p 
            Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
          p 
 p Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article.  p 
 p Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed.  p 
 p There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.  p 
 p Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  p 
