 p align="center" 
 a href="T0756E00.htm#TOC"  img src="toc.GIF" width="43" height="35" border="0" alt="Table of Contents"   a 
 a href="T0756E02.htm"  img src="next.GIF" width="43" height="35" border="0" alt="Next Page"   a   p 
 p The objectives of meat inspection programme are twofold:  p 
 p To ensure that only apparently healthy, physiologically
normal animals are slaughtered for human consumption and
that abnormal animals are separated and dealt with
accordingly.  p 
 p To ensure that meat from animals is free from disease,
wholesome and of no risk to human health.  p 
 p These objectives are achieved by antemortem and postmortem
inspection procedures and by hygienic dressing with minimum
contamination. Whenever appropriate the Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) principles should be used: The inspection
procedures should be appropriate to the spectrum and prevalence
of diseases and defects present in the particular class of livestock
being inspected using the principles of risk assessment.  p 
 p Some of the  i major objectives  i  of antemortem inspection are as
follows:  p 
 p to screen all animals destined to slaughter.  p 
 p to ensure that animals are properly rested and that proper
clinical information, which will assist in the disease
diagnosis and judgement, is obtained.  p 
 p to reduce contamination on the killing floor by separating the
dirty animals and condemning the diseased animals if
required by regulation.  p 
 p to ensure that injured animals or those with pain and
suffering receive emergency slaughter and that animals are
treated humanely.  p 
 p to identify reportable animal diseases to prevent killing floor
contamination.  p 
 p to identify sick animals and those treated with antibiotics,
chemotherapeutic agents, insecticides and pesticides.  p 
 p to require and ensure the cleaning and disinfection of trucks
used to transport livestock.  p 
 p Both sides of an animal should be examined at rest and in
motion. Antemortem examination should be done within 24 hours
of slaughter and repeated if slaughter has been delayed over a day.  p 
 p Spread hogs and animals affected with extensive bruising or
fractures require emergency slaughter. Animals showing clinical
signs of disease should be held for veterinary examination and
judgement. They are treated as “suspects” and should be
segregated from the healthy animals. The disease and management
history should be recorded and reported on an  i A M  i  inspection
card. Other information should include:  p 
 p  i Antemortem inspection  i  should be carried out in adequate lighting
where the animals can be observed both collectively and
individually at rest and motion. The general behaviour of animals
should be observed, as well as their nutritional status, cleanliness,
signs of diseases and abnormalities. Some of the abnormalities
which are checked on antemortem examination include:  p 
 p  i Abnormalities in respiration  i  commonly refer to frequency of
respiration. If the breathing pattern is different from normal the
animal should be segregated as a suspect.  p 
 p  i Abnormalities in behaviour  i  are manifested by one or more of the
following signs:  p 
 p The animal may be:  p 
 p An  i abnormal gait  i  in an animal is associated with pain in the
legs, chest or abdomen or is an indication of nervous disease.  p 
 p  i Abnormal posture  i  in an animal is observed as tucked up
abdomen or the animal may stand with an extended head and
stretched out feet. The animal may also be laying and have its
head turned along its side. When it is unable to rise, it is often
called a “downer”. Downer animals should be handled with
caution in order to prevent further suffering.  p 
 p  i Abnormalities in structure  i  (conformation) are manifested by:  p 
 p Some examples of  i abnormal discharges  i  or protrusions from the
body are:  p 
 p  i Abnormal colour  i  such as black areas on horses and swine, red
areas on light coloured skin (inflammation), dark blue areas on the
skin or udder (gangrene).  p 
 p An  i abnormal odour  i  is difficult to detect on routine A M
examination. The odour of an abscess, a medicinal odour,
stinkweed odour or an acetone odour of ketosis may be observed.  p 
 p Since many abattoirs in developing countries have not
accommodation station or yards for animals, Inspector's
antemortem judgement must be performed at the admission of
slaughter animals.  p 
 p Routine postmortem examination of a carcass should be carried
out as soon as possible after the completion of dressing in order to
detect any abnormalities so that products only conditionally fit for
human consumption are not passed as food. All organs and carcass
portions should be kept together and correlated for inspection
before they are removed from the slaughter floor.  p 
 p Postmortem inspection should provide necessary information for
the scientific evaluation of pathological lesions pertinent to the
wholesomeness of meat. Professional and technical knowledge
must be fully utilized by:  p 
 p  i viewing, incision, palpation  i  and  i olfaction techniques  i .  p 
 p  i classifying the lesions  i  into one of two major categories -
 i acute or chronic  i .  p 
 p establishing whether the  i condition is localized or
generalized  i , and the extent of systemic changes in other
organs or tissues.  p 
 p  i determing the significance of primary and systemic
pathological lesions  i  and their relevance to major organs and
systems, particularly the liver, kidneys, heart, spleen and
lymphatic system.  p 
 p  i coordinating all the components of antemortem and
postmortem findings  i  to make a final diagnosis.  p 
 p  i submitting the samples to the laboratory for diagnostic
support  i , if abattoir has holding and refrigeration facilities for
carcasses under detention.  p 
 p Trimming or condemnation may involve:  p 
 p Any portion of a carcass or a carcass that is  i abnormal  i  or
 i diseased  i .  p 
 p Any portion of a carcass or a carcass affected with a
condition that may present a  i hazard to human health  i .  p 
 p Any portion of a carcass or a carcass that may be  i repulsive
to the consumer  i .  p 
 p It is important to differentiate between a localized or a
generalized condition in the judgement of an animal
carcass. In a  i localized  i  condition, a lesion is restricted by the
animal defense mechanisms to a certain area or organ. Systemic
changes associated with a localized condition may also occur.
Example: jaundice caused by liver infection or toxaemia following
pyometra (abscess in the uterus).  p 
 p In a  i generalized  i  condition, the animal's defense mechanisms are
unable to stop the spread of the disease process by way of the
circulatory or lymphatic systems. The lymph nodes of the carcass
should be examined if pathological lesions are generalized. Some
of the signs of a generalized disease are:  p 
 p Generalized inflammation of lymph nodes including the
lymph nodes of the head, viscera and or the lymph nodes of
the carcass  p 
 p Inflammation of joints  p 
 p Lesions in different organs including liver, spleen kidneys
and heart  p 
 p The presence of multiple abscesses in different portions of
the carcass including the spine of ruminants  p 
 p Generalized lesions usually require more severe judgement than
localized lesions.  p 
 p  i Acute conditions  i   p 
 p An acute condition implies that a lesion has developed over a
period of some days, whereas a chronic condition implies the
development of lesions over a period of some weeks, months or
years. A subacute condition refers to a time period between an
acute and chronic condition.  p 
 p The acute stage is manifested by inflammation of different
organs or tissues, enlarged haemorrhagic lymph nodes and often
by petechial haemorrhage of the mucosal and serous membranes
and different organs such as heart, kidney and liver. An acute
stage parallels with the generalized disease complex, when an
acute infection tends to overcome the animal's immune system
and becomes generalized.  p 
 p Each case showing systemic lesions should be assessed
individually taking into account the significance that these lesions
have towards major organ systems, especially the liver, kidneys,
heart, spleen and lymphatic system as well as the general condition
of the carcass.  p 
 p  i Chronic conditions  i   p 
 p In a chronic condition, inflammation associated with congestion
is replaced by adhesions, necrotic and fibrotic tissue or abscesses.
The judgement in the chronic stage is less severe and frequently
the removal of affected portions is required without the
condemnation of the carcass. However, judgement on the animal
or carcass judgement tends to be more complicated in subchronic
and sometimes in peracute stages. If generalized necrotic tissue is
associated with previous infection, carcass must be condemned.  p 
 p align="center"  b HEADS  b   p 
 p  b General  b  View external surfaces. For cattle, horses, pigs and
game view the oral and nasal cavities.  p 
 p View and incise by multiple incision or slicing.  p 
 p  b Fig. 1  b  : Head inspection. Retropharyngeal (No. 1), parotid (No. 2)
and submaxillary (No. 3) lymph nodes are viewed and incised by
multiple incisions and slicing.  p 
 p  b Fig. 2  b : Head inspection
in buffalo.  p 
 p Retropharyngeal lymph
nodes (No. 1) are viewed
and incised by multiple
incisions and slicing.  p 
 p  b Tongue  b  View and palpate (view only in calves up to 6 weeks of
age).  p 
 p  b Other  b   p 
 p  b Cattle  b  - except in calves up to six week of age, the
oesophagus of all cattle and calves should be separated
from its attachment to the trachea and viewed. br 
- as part of inspection of all cattle and calves over the
age of 6 weeks for Cysticercus bovis, the muscles of
mastication should be viewed and one or more linear
incisions made parallel to the lower jaw into the
external and internal muscles of mastication; in addition
one incision into M.triceps brachii, 5 cm behind the
elbow, should be made.  p 
 p  b Horse  b  - the head should be split lengthwise in the
medial line and the nasal septum removed and examined
in all horses that are from areas where glanders is
endemic.  p 
 p  b Pigs  b  - where there is a risk of Cysticercus cellulosae
being present, the outer muscles of mastication, the
abdominal and diaphragmatic muscles and the root of
the tongue of all pigs should be incised and the blade of
the tongue viewed and palpated;  p 
 p  b Game  b  - inspection cuts for tapeworm cysts are not
necessary, as these cysts are generally not infective for
humans.  p 
 p  b NOTES  b   p 
 p These are guidelines for inspection requirements, the
inspection can be made more intensive or less intensive
depending on the outcome of the examination.  p 
 p “incise” means multiple incisions or slicing.  p 
 p “palpate” as used above means to view and palpate.  p 
 p  b VISCERA  b   p 
 p  b Lungs  b  (Fig. 3)  p 
 p View and palpate. Except in sheep and goats, the bronchi should
be opened up by a transverse incision across the diaphragmatic
lobes. For horses and cattle, the larynx, trachea and main
bronchi should be opened along their length.  p 
 p Lymph nodes  p 
 p Bronchial (tracheobronchial) and mediastinal: Incise, (a) (see
“Notes”)  p 
 p  b Fig. 3  b : Lung inspection - Bronchial left (No. 1) and right (No. 2)
and mediastinal (No. 3) lymph nodes are viewed and incised.  p 
 p  b Fig. 4  b : Lung
inspection in
buffalo - Open
trachea and
incised
bronchial and
mediastinal
lymph nodes.  p 
 p  b Heart  b  (Fig. 5)  p 
 p View after the removal of the pericardium. Additional inspection
requirements for cattle as per (b).  p 
 p Additional inspection requirements for pigs as per (c).  p 
 p  b Fig. 5  b : Heart
inspection -
Lengthwise
incisions
(minimum four)
from base to
apex into the
heart muscles.
Observe cut
surfaces.  p 
 p  b Liver  b  (Fig. 6)  p 
 p View and palpate entire surface(both sides). View the gall
bladder. For cattle over 6 weeks of age, incise as deemed
appropriate to detect liver flukes. Open large bile ducts. For
sheep, pigs and game, incise as deemed appropriate for parasite.  p 
 p Lymph nodes  p 
 p Portal (hepatic), view and incise  p 
 p  b Fig. 6  b : Liver
inspection -
Incised portal
(hepatic) lymph
nodes (No. 1)
and opened
large bile duct
(No. 2).  p 
 p  b Spleen  b  (Fig. 7)  p 
 p Palpate  p 
 p  b Fig. 7  b :  Stomachs and
spleen
inspection -
Viewing of
rumen and
viewing and
palpation of
spleen.  p 
 p  b Gastrointestinal tract  b  (Fig. 8)  p 
 p View (a)  p 
 p Mesenteric lymph nodes (Fig. 9), View (a,d)  p 
 p  b Fig. 8  b : Viewing
of rumen,
reticulum,
omasum and
abomasum.  p 
 p  b Fig. 9  b : Viewing and
incision of the
mesenteric lymph nodes.
In this case an incision
was performed to
demonstrate the
mesenteric lymph nodes
chain.  p 
 p  b Kidneys  b   p 
 p View after enucleation. In grey and white horses - Incise.  p 
 p  b Uterus  b  (adults), View  p 
 p  b NOTES  b   p 
 p These are guidelines for inspection requirements, the
inspection can be made more intensive or less intensive
depending on the outcome of the examination.  p 
 p “incise” means multiple incisions or slicing.  p 
 p “palpate” as used above means to view and palpate.  p 
 p (a) view only in calves up to 6 weeks of age.  p 
 p (b) the heart of all cattle and calves over the age of 6 weeks
should be inspected for Cysticercus bovis either by making
one or more incisions from base to apex or by everting the
heart and making shallow incisions that enable the cardiac
valves and muscle tissue to be inspected; this inspection of
the heart should also be undertaken in calves up to 6 weeks
of age that are from areas where Cysticercus bovis is
endemic.  p 
 p (c) the heart of all pigs derived from areas where there is a
risk of Cysticercus cellulosae being present, should be
opened up and the deep incision made into the septum.  p 
 p (d) incise if any lesion were observed in the submaxillary
lymph nodes.  p 
 p  b CARCASS  b   p 
 p  b General  b   p 
 p Examine carcasses (including musculature, exposed bones,
joints, tendon sheaths etc.) to determine any signs of disease or
defect. Attention should be paid to bodily condition, efficiency of
bleeding, colour, condition of serous membranes (pleura and
peritoneum), cleanliness and presence of any unusual odours.  p 
 p  b Lymph nodes  b  a class="doclink" href="#ref1"  sup 1  sup   a   p 
 p Superficial inguinal (male) (Fig. 10) - Palpate
Supramammary (female) - Palpate (a)
External and internal iliac (Fig. 10, Fig. 11) - Palpate (b)
Prepectoral (Fig. 12) - Palpate
Popliteal (Fig. 13) - Palpate (only sheep goats and
game antelope)
Renal (Fig. 12) - Palpate (cattle, horses, pigs) or incise if
diseases is suspected.
Prescapular (Fig. 14) &amp; prefemoral - Palpate (only sheep and
goats)  p 
 p  a class="Footnote" name="ref1"  sup 1  sup   In all animals in which systemic or generalized disease is suspected, in all animals
positive to a diagnostic test for tuberculosis, in all animals in which lesions suggestive
of tuberculosis are found at postmortem inspection, the main carcass lymph nodes
being the precrural, popliteal, anal, superficial inguinal, ischiatic, internal and external
iliac, lumber, renal, sternal, prepectoral, prescapular and atlantal nodes, as well as the
lymph nodes of the head and viscera, should be incised and examined.  a   p 
 p  b Other  b   p 
 p The muscles and the lymph nodes (lymphonodi sub-rhomboidei)
beneath one of the two scapular cartilages of all grey or white
horses should be examined for melanosis after loosening the
attachment of one shoulder.  p 
 p  b NOTES  b   p 
 p These are guidelines for inspection requirements, the
inspection can be made more intensive or less intensive
depending on the outcome of the examination.  p 
 p “incise” means multiple incisions or slicing.  p 
 p “palpate” as used above means to view and palpate.  p 
 p (a) incise when udder is or has been in lactation or in case
of mastitis.  p 
 p (b) means iliac nodes in pigs.  p 
 p  b Fig. 10  b : Superficial
inguinal and internal and
external iliac lymph
nodes in a pig. Viewed
and palpated on routine
P M examination.  p 
 p  b Fig. 11  b : Medial view of
the hind quarter.
Superficial inguinal,
internal and external
iliac and lumbar lymph
nodes are palpated and
incised in systemic or
generalized disease.  p 
 p  b Fig. 12  b : Medial view of
the fore quarter with
intercostal, suprasternal,
presternal and
prepectoral lymph
nodes. Presternal and
prepectoral lymph nodes
are incised.  p 
 p  b Fig. 13  b : Popliteal lymph
nodes in a pig. These
nodes are incised if a
systemic or general
disease is suspected.  p 
 p  b Fig. 14  b : Lateral view of
the carcass. Precrural
and prescapular lymph
nodes are incised in
systemic or generalized
disease.  p 
 p  b Fig. 15  b : Medial view of
carcass with relevant
lymph nodes  p 
 p Antemortem inspection of birds presents some difficulties if the
birds are placed in crates or liners, and hence only a superficial
inspection of their general condition is carried out. The remainder
of the poultry examination should take place after the birds have
been hung in shackles and before they are bled. The records of
antemortem inspection are mandatory and should include date and
time of inspection, truck number, species, the total number of
birds and the name of the owner. The objectives of antemortem
examination are:  p 
 p to determine the  i general condition of the birds  i   p 
 p to establish if  i a disease or condition requires particular
handling  i  such as segregation of diseased birds, delayed
slaughter or adjustment of line speed.  p 
 p In inclement weather, particular in winter, birds require
immediate slaughter. In the summer, the steady change of air in
the truck or in the holding area should be maintained. In cases of
reportable disease, such as avian influenza or Newcastle disease,
a veterinarian should be informed and all pertinent information
should be recorded. Some diseases have similar signs on  i A M
inspection  i . For example, infectious bronchitis may be confused
with Newcastle disease. A differential diagnosis is required in such
cases.  p 
 p  i Postmortem inspection  i  in poultry refers to inspection techniques
and inspection of carcasses and viscera. P M examination consist
of viewing, palpation and smell. The colour, shape, and
consistency of organs and tissues must be observed singly or in
combination. The colour of the poultry carcass depends on age,
sex, nutrition and the scalding temperature during slaughter.  p 
 p Carcasses must be suspended at 2 or 3 points depending on the
class of poultry. Intestinal tract, liver, spleen, and heart (viscera)
must be exposed for visual examination and palpation. A poultry
inspector (Fig. 16) should be able to look inside the carcass and
detect any pathological lesions such as airsac inflammation,
peritonitis, oviduct inflammation (salpingitis) etc. Contamination
by faeces and bile should also be observed. During the
examination of viscera and carcass, both hands should be used.
External lesions on the carcass include the swelling of the sinuses,
nasal and ocular discharge (if the head is present), skin lesions,
joint swellings etc.  p 
 p  b Judgement  b  : Localized lesions could be disposed by an inspector,
however the final judgement of the carcass should be done by a
veterinarian. The condemnation of carcass is usually for
pathological, non pathological and aesthetic reasons.  p 
 p  b Fig. 16  b : Inspection of
the viscera and carcass
in a broiler.  p 
 p Some parts of the world continue to be blessed with large,
thriving populations of game animals, in Africa particularly
antelopes such as impala, kudu and eland, in the Southern part of
Latin America hares and some deer and antelope species and in
Eastern Europe red and roe deer. Controlled cropping of these
herds can provide a significant, sustainable source of
supplementary protein especially in rural areas.  p 
 p In ideal circumstances and in case of the game meat is for
export, two basic systems of culling and carcass preparation can
be used.  p 
 p The first system is one of night shooting on foot using
spotlights. Animals which appear healthy are shot, immediately
bled and the stomachs and intestine eviscerated on the spot.
After a number of carcasses have been collected on an
accompanying vehicle, they are then transferred to a central,
permanent abattoir facility suitable for their dressing, inspection
and refrigeration. Since antemortem inspection is performed by
hunters, they should be trained in basic antemortem procedures
in order that they may be able to select healthy from sick
animals.  p 
 p In the second system animals are rounded up and herded into
a temporary, funnel like structure. The animals are rested and
antemortem inspection is carried out much more objectively.
Animals are then shot at point blank range, bled and eviscerated
immediately and removed to a temporary butchery for dressing,
inspection and refrigeration. Ante and postmortem inspection can
be objectively carried out with this system, although hygiene
could be somewhat compromised. A judicious combination of
features form both these systems, which can be modified, can be
used to suit a variety of circumstances in the field.  p 
 p  b Antemortem and postmortem inspection procedures  b   p 
 p The inspection procedures that are most appropriate to any
particular type of game animal or carcass will vary not only
according to species, but also according to whatever other
information may be available about the wildlife population from
which they are harvested. Minimum inspection procedures as set
out in the Joint FAO WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission's
Code of Hygienic Practice for Game, are useful commencing
points in developing appropriate procedures.  p 
 p  b Judgement categories  b   p 
 p The decision at inspection is classed into the following categories
of Judgement:  p 
 p Approved as fit for human consumption.  p 
 p When the inspection and any other information available has
revealed no evidence of any unacceptable disease or defect, and if
the dressing has been implemented in accordance with hygienic
requirements, the game carcass and offal should be approved as fit
for human consumption without restriction provided no animal
health restrictions are otherwise applicable.  p 
 p Totally unfit for human consumption.  p 
 p The game animal and all offal should be condemned or otherwise
disposed of for inedible purposes if:  p 
 p they are hazardous for food handlers, consumers and other
animals;  p 
 p they show decomposition, extensive injury, swelling edema,
emaciation or contamination;  p 
 p they show signs consistent with natural death, death by
trapping or a moribund state.  p 
 p there are unacceptable deviations, form normal game meat,
detectable by sensory means.  p 
 p 3. Partially condemned.  p 
 p Where lesions are localized, affecting only part of the carcass or
offal, the affected parts should be removed and the unaffected
parts conditionally or unconditionally passed.  p 
 p  b Conditions affecting antelope  b   p 
 p The antelope is perhaps the most preferred and frequently hunted
species of game animal in Africa for the specific purpose of
providing meat for human consumption. The impala is the easiest
of the antelope to cull on a large scale, although the eland is
almost as easy to manage as some domestic cattle. Favourable
features of antelope are their apparent good herd-health and lack
of pathological and parasitic conditions found at meat inspection.
Causes of condemnation of the carcass, meat and offal in impala
in Africa seem to fall into two categories:  p 
 p Management related:  p 
 p  i trauma  i  - due to gunshot wounds.  p 
 p  i contamination  i  - chiefly gross dirt attained from the environment
during bleeding and de-gutting or intestinal contents during
careless evisceration.  p 
 p  i spoilage and putrefaction  i  - wastage for these reasons can be
considerable in Africa if operations are carried out during
summer daytime. These losses can be minimized if hunting and
dressing are done during the winter months, at night and during
lower ambient temperatures.  p 
 p Disease related:  p 
 p Parasites  p 
 p “measles” - tapeworm cysts of various kinds have been found in
game carcass such as impala, kudu, bushbuck, reedbuck, sable,
wildebeest (gnu, antelope) and warthogs. The cysts vary in size
from that of a pea to a golf ball and are often seen in the
peritoneal cavity, loosely attached to the serosa, viscera or in the
musculature. There are no special predilection sites of the
muscular cysts. Routine inspection incisions for measles in
domestic animals are of no value in determining presence or
degree of infestation in game animals. Serosal affection can be
successfully trimmed before release but muscular parasites make
the carcass aesthetically unacceptable. In the latter carcass can
be boiled or used for manufacturing purposes. These cysts do
not seem to affect humans.  p 
 p  i Sarcocysts  i  - these are frequently seen in the skeletal muscle of
impala (mostly microscopic however); the carcass may have to
be condemned if severely affected.  p 
 p  i Stilesia  i  - this tapeworm may be found in the liver of small
antelope and seem to be widespread in Africa. Trimming is
required.  p 
 p  i Cooperoides hepatica  i  - this is a small brown filarial worm which
occurs coiled up in a cyst in the liver, most frequently in impala.
It is often associated with stilesia. Trimming is required.  p 
 p  i Cordophillus  i  - a filarial worm found encysted in the heart
muscle of kudu. 25% of these animals are affected. This parasite
is occasionally found in other muscle and may also occur in the
heart muscle of domestic cattle. Affected tissue should be
trimmed.  p 
 p  i Hydatid  i  - these cysts have been seen in the lungs and livers of
impala, zebra, giraffe and warthog. If slight infestation is present
affected tissue should be trimmed.  p 
 p  i Pathological conditions  i  - the incidence of septicemic bacteremic
conditions and pneumonia were extremely low.  p 
 p Red deer and fallow deer and some of the antelopes mentioned
above are the main species which are farmed for meat production.
In particular in New Zealand, but also in Europe and some other
regions game farming has become an important source of
supplying the domestic and export markets with venison.  p 
 p Farmed game is in many cases slaughtered in special premises
and is therefore subject to antemortem and postmortem inspection.
Game farmers are now experienced enough to arrange for live
animal transports on trucks to the game slaughterhouses. These
abattoirs have specific lairages, where the animals can be rested.
Slaughter takes place by using captive bolt pistols for stunning and
bleeding, deboning evisceration and carcass dressing is similar to
cattle slaughter, however carcass splitting is usually not
performed.  p 
 p Antemortem and postmortem inspection procedures and
conditions affecting the farmed game are similar to the situation
described for wild game. However, residues in meat (veterinary
drugs, pesticides), parasitic diseases or infectious diseases such as
tuberculosis may pose major problems than it is the case in wild
game.  p 
 p The slaughter of farm ostriches is fast becoming a commercial
enterprise and may provide an important source of lean,
high-protein meat for human consumption. The slaughter and
dressing procedures consist essentially of stunning, bleeding
defeathering and dressing. These operations are carried out in
separate rooms.  p 
 p -  Stunning. The bird is stunned electrically using 90 volts at
1.5 amperes for approximately 20 seconds.  p 
 p Bleeding. The neck and vessels are severed behind the jaw.  p 
 p De-feathering. This is done manually in order to avoid
damage to the skin follicles.  p 
 p -  Dressing is done in a manner similar to that of small
ruminants. Organs are eviscerated in one set.  p 
 p  b Antemortem inspection  b  :  p 
 p The following are characteristics of apparently  b healthy ostriches  b :  p 
 p Alert and inquisitive with a bright eye and erected neck;
occasionally lowering and then raising head.  p 
 p Walks with a springy gait and may sometimes be aggressive.  p 
 p Pecks inquisitively at shiny objects.  p 
 p Produces thick, white clear urine and firm faeces.  p 
 p The feathers are fluffed up and the body appears well
rounded. The tail is well perked.  p 
 p The following are characteristics of  b sick ostriches  b :  p 
 p Lethargic and drooping neck and wings. It may sit down
frequently or become recumbent. This clinical sign may also
be observed in the stressed bird.  p 
 p The eyes are half closed  p 
 p The mucosa of the mouth may be very congested; the
ostriches peck at food but do not swallow.  p 
 p The abdomen may sometimes be bloated and blue purple.  p 
 p The urine may be green or brown and the faeces fluid or
pasty.  p 
 p The feathers appear bedraggled; the wings and tail drop.  p 
 p  b Postmortem inspection  b :  p 
 p It will be necessary for the head, pluck (heart, pericardium,
liver, spleen, and lung if possible), alimentary tract, genitalia and
carcass (with neck and kidney) to be properly identified and
presented separately for inspection. The ostrich, like other avian
species is lacking an organized lymphatic system. Since many viral
and bacterial infections tend to be of a generalized nature, sound
and professional meat inspection examination and judgement of
the birds and carcass is of great importance.  p 
 p Lungs not removed during dressing procedures should be
examined visually and by palpation in the thorax. To expose the
lungs, two cuts above the lungs on the each side of the ribs should
be made.  p 
 p  i Head  i   br 
Visual examination of the mouth, palate, eyes, lips and
sinuses for icterus, sinusitis, crusting of eyelids and
thrush (oral Candida infection)  p 
 p  i Pluck  i  br 
Lungs - visual and palpation for haemorrhage, edema
and pneumonia.  p 
 p Heart - visual and palpation for haemorrhages; expose
valves for endocarditis.  p 
 p Pericardium - visual, and incision if necessary; for
pericarditis.  p 
 p Liver - visual and palpation; incise if necessary; for
icterus, discolouration, adhesions, degeneration,
abscess, fibrosis, inflammation and toxic conditions
Spleen - visual and incision if necessary; for
enlargement, haemorrhages and signs of febrile or
septic conditions.  p 
 p Kidney - visual and palpation; for haemorrhages,
degeneration, urate crystals.  p 
 p  i Intestinal tract  i   p 
 p Oesophagus proventriculus, gizzard - visual and
palpation; for foreign body penetration, impaction,
inflammation and ulceration and parasitic conditions
(nematode-Libyostrongylus) in glands of proventriculus.  p 
 p Small intestine - visual and palpation; impaction,
volvulus, necrotic and catarrhal enteritis and small
tapeworm (Houttynia).  p 
 p Large intestine - visual and palpation for faecal
impaction, stones, inflammation and nematode
(Condiostomum).  p 
 p Reproductive organs - visual for egg retention, rupture,
prolapsed penis; Atrophic organs are found during
non-breeding season.  p 
 p  i Carcass  i   p 
 p Visual inspection of external and internal carcass surfaces,
limbs and joints. Observe for contamination, inadequate
bleeding, bruising, haemorrhages, lacerations, fracture,
dislocation, twisted legs, adhesions, icterus, arthritis, peritonitis,
air sacculitis, abscesses (injection sites), foreign bodies.  p 
 p  b Judgement  b   p 
 p Carcass should be condemned if affected with any of the
following: death from any cause other than slaughter, extensive
bruising and haemorrhages, general contamination, putrefaction,
emaciation, edema, icterus, septicemia, aspergillosis,
toxoplasmosis, malignant or multiple tumours, leucosis,
poisoning. The parts of the carcass which show localized lesions
may be trimmed and the rest of the carcass would then be
approved.  p 
 p 1.  During dressing the carcass is  i exposed to contamination  i  from:  p 
 p Abattoir environment including implements used, and the
hands of the operators. A variety of bacteria, fungi and yeasts
are in the abattoir environment. Studies in abattoirs indicate that
salmonella counts in the implements used may vary from 0 – 270
per cm sup 2  sup  or more in each implement, depending on their regular
cleaning and sanitation the scabbards having the highest
numbers.  p 
 p Hides of the animals  p 
 p Hides are heavily contaminated parts and can reach up to 3 ×
10 sup 6  sup  bacteria per cm sup 2  sup  or more.  p 
 p Stomach and gastrointestinal contents  p 
 p Gastrointestinal contents have the heaviest load of
microorganisms. Faeces contain up to 9.0 × 10 sup 7  sup  bacteria per
gram, and various numbers of yeast and mould. The ruminal
contents have only slightly lower numbers of micro-organisms.  p 
 p 2.  Therefore, during meat inspection it is an important duty of the
inspecting officer to ensure that:  p 
 p the implements used during slaughtering, dressing and meat
inspection are well sanitised periodically or whenever they are
likely to be contaminated;  p 
 p during cutting into the hide and exposure of the carcass, the
external surface of the hide does not contact the carcass meat;  p 
 p the viscera are not accidentally opened during the dressing
procedures or during evisceration.  p 
 p 3.  If a carcass or part is contaminated with faeces or visceral
contents such areas should be trimmed off. The opened viscera
would have to be separated from the rest of the carcass as quickly
as possible.  p 
 p 4.  The introduction of a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP) concept can be helpful to maintain high standards of
slaughter and dressing hygiene based on an assessment of the risks
to human and animal health.  p 
 p A specific HACCP concept tailored to each abattoir and the class
of animal should be developed to ensure the most efficient and
effective concept of sanitary control.  p 
 p The introduction of specific HACCP concept involves the
following:  p 
 p The Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) Concept
was introduced in the food industry in 1971 to ensure that there
would be effective control of the quality of processed foods. The
World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that this concept
also be applied to Meat Inspection and Meat Hygiene in particular
to control salmonellosis. It can also be used to reduce bacterial
contamination during slaughtering and dressing and to ensure
quality control in Meat Inspection.  p 
 p Meat Inspection and Meat Hygiene shall make sure that meat and
meat products are safe and wholesome for human consumption.
The practise of meat inspection has gradually changed over the last
three decades. The classical antemortem and postmortem
procedures were designed to detect disease in an animal before
slaughter and the lesions produced by the disease after slaughter
respectively. This was done by the use of senses (organoleptic
tests) such as the use of touch (palpation), sight (inspection and
observation), smell (gangrenous smell) and taste (only in cooked
products). Zoonotic diseases, particularly tuberculosis received
high priority. Laboratory tests were done to confirm the disease
when necessary or as appropriate.  p 
 p With the gradual reduction in the incidence of animal
tuberculosis in many countries along with the development of
intensive methods of animal husbandry and the widespread use of
pesticides and veterinary drugs, new problems are emerging.
These are associated with residues on one hand and increased
human infections with zoonotic agents contaminating animal foods
on the other. There appears to be a general trend worldwide, with
a few exceptions where human Salmonella infections have nearly
doubled during the last five year period and human Campylobacter
infections have nearly tripled during the same period.  p 
 p Other bacteria that are causing increasing concern as food
contaminants are Yersinia spp. and Listeria spp. There is
simultaneously a greater consumer expectation of a longer shelf
life in the finished fresh meat product. All these factors suggest
that in the practise of meat inspection, it would be advantageous
to use the HACCP concept to identify the critical control points at
which these bacterial groups and other spoilage organisms may
contaminate the carcasses, so that appropriate action can be taken.
The critical control points that have been identified for Salmonella
contamination in red meats, and poultry are shown in Fig. 17 and
Fig. 18. These are applicable to other major bacterial contaminants
as well.  p 
 p These figures show that during red meat production, major
contamination occurs in the abattoir during skinning and
evisceration, that some contamination could occur during
transport, lairage and deboning and that the most effective control
point is in the chiller. Therefore, it is absolutely essential for meat
inspectors to ensure that skinning and evisceration are done
properly. The critical control points during the slaughter of poultry
(Fig. 18) are picking and evisceration. In developing countries
where these tasks are not automated, it is necessary to ensure that
proper hygienic precautions are taken during each of these
operations. In automated plants, the machinery for picking and
evisceration would need to be sanitised regularly, in particular
when birds from different sources are slaughtered.  p 
 p  b Fig. 17:  b   Flow diagram showing
sources of contamination with
Salmonella and Critical Control
Points (CCP) in Red Meat Production.  p 
 p  b Fig.18:  b   Flow digram showing
sources of contamination with
Salmonella and CCP in
processing of Poultry Meat.  p 
 p align="right" (Adapted from WHO 1986)  p 
 p align="center" 
 a href="#TopOfPage" target="_top"  img src="top.GIF" width="43" height="35" border="0" alt="Top of Page"   a 
 a href="T0756E02.htm"  img src="next.GIF" width="43" height="35" border="0" alt="Next Page"   a 
  p 
