 p class="caption" Pick a route, choose your lodges and we'll do the rest  p 
 p  b Custom trip  b   p 
 p class="guest-rating" Our guests rate us br  b 5 out of 5 stars  b   p 
 p Read what they say  p 
 p Animal migrations in Africa. We defy you not to think of the Great Migration in the Serengeti – and we’ve got a handy  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com blog best-time-see-great-migration" Serengeti planning guide here  a , and a guide to the  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com blog serengeti-safari-camps" best camps to see the migration here  a  – but did you know there are numerous other migrations across the continent? From the watery to the downright ‘batty’, we’ve done our research and come up with the top five animal migrations in Africa. Enjoy!  p 
 p  em Liuwa Plain, Zambia  em   p 
 p They might be wildebeest, but this isn’t the Serengeti. Instead, we’re on the golden grasslands of  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region liuwa-plain-safari" Liuwa Plain  a  National Park in Zambia’s far western corner, home of the continent’s ‘other’ (and second largest) wildebeest migration. Here, the 40,000 ungulates move north to greener pastures in July, before heading back down south as the rains build in late October. The numbers might not be as spectacular as the Serengeti, but the setting is remote and wild and the experience is superbly intimate, making it one of our favourite animal migrations in Africa.  p 
 p Stay at  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com lodge time-tide-king-lewanika-lodge" Time + Tide King Lewanika  a  from October to February for your chance to witness the Liuwa Plain blue wildebeest migration on the safari of a lifetime.  p 
 p  em Hermanus, South Africa  em   p 
 p Between June and November, cast your eyes over the crashing waters of South Africa’s southern coastline for you might just spot another of Africa’s animal migrations, this time of the watery kind. Every year, hundreds of Southern Right whales migrate to the ocean around the Western Cape and  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region hermanus" Hermanus  a  to calve and nurse their young. Often only metres from the shore, the area offers some of the best whale watching in the world, either from a specially-adapted boat or from the rocky shoreline. If you miss them in Hermanus, hire a car and drive up the  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region garden-route-safari" Garden Route  a  – the 900-kilometre Whale Route extends all the way from  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region cape-town-holiday" Cape Town  a  to Plettenberg Bay and chances of seeing the magnificent mammals are high.  p 
 p Plan your South Africa safari to Cape Town, Hermanus and the Garden Route  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com trip hit-the-road" here  a  – and include a stay at  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com lodge birkenhead-house" Birkenhead House  a  in Hermanus for whale watching with an added splash of luxury.  p 
 p  em Kasanka National Park, Zambia  em   p 
 p We love uncovering a good wildlife secret, and the Kasanka bat migration in  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com country zambia-safari" Zambia  a  was no exception. The Serengeti’s movement of wildebeest may be the most well-known animal migration in Africa, but the bat migration takes the title of the largest, with over 10 million fruit bats flocking to the Kasanka National Park. The tiny, straw-coloured mammals are attracted by the fragrant fruits of the forest, ripened by the onset of the rains. At dusk, the skies darken as the bats take flight in a mesmerising show of fluttering wings and loud chatter to munch on the seeds. The best vantage points are the treehouse platforms and hides dotted around the area but you’ll have to be quick – the bats begin arriving at the end of October and are almost entirely gone by December.  p 
 p Get in touch with us to find out more about trips to Kasanka for the bat migration – and in the meantime, start designing the rest of your Zambia safari  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com trips?countries=Zambia" here  a .  p 
 p  em Serengeti, Tanzania  em   p 
 p The most famous of all the animal migrations in Africa and quite possibly nature’s greatest show on earth, the annual  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com experience great-migration-safari" Great Wildebeest Migration  a  in  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region serengeti-safari" Tanzania’s Serengeti  a  and  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region maasai-mara-safari" Kenya’s Masai Mara  a  is hard to beat. A spectacular show of life and death, from the beginnings of new life on the glossy-green plains of the Southern Serengeti in January, to the frantic thrashing and splashing of the Mara River crossings in July and August, there’s always something to see. And there’s always a good time to visit too for the beasties are constantly on the move, forever searching for fresh grass on their migration routes as old as time.  p 
 p Start planning your Great Migration safari  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com trips?experiences=The%20Great%20Wildebeest%20Migration" here  a  (and take a peek at our handy ‘how to’ blog articles  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com blog?s=wildebeest" here  a ).  p 
 p  em Makgadikgadi, Botswana  em   p 
 p In December and January, the summer rain turns Botswana’s arid, lunar-like  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com region makgadikgadi-safari" Makgadikgadi Pans  a  into a vibrant wonderland of green grass and fresh nutrients. And where there’s green grass, there’s often a bevy of ungulates and this time, it’s the turn of the zebra. It’s thought that around 40,000 of the mammals migrate in a virtually straight line from Namibia across Botswana’s Makgadikgadi and the Kalahari Desert, culminating in an explosion of black and white stripes at the Boteti River in April. If that wasn’t exciting enough, predators lurk in abundance taking the opportunity to feast on the easy prey. Now, how’s that for an animal migration in Africa?  p 
 p Stay at  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com lodge jack-s-camp" Jacks’ Camp  a  in the Makgadikgadi from January to March to see the migration in full swing, or  a href="https:  www.timbuktutravel.com lodge meno-a-kwena" Meno a Kwena  a  in April, for the best view of the herds at the Boteti River.  p 
 p    p 
 p class="mob_only date hidden-sm hidden-xs" 
14 September 2018   p 
 p class="mob_only date hidden-sm hidden-xs" 
23 October 2017   p 
 p class="mob_only date hidden-sm hidden-xs" 
4 August 2017   p 
 p class="mob_only date hidden-sm hidden-xs" 
21 December 2018   p 
