 p How did the zebra get its stripes? One African account says the animal donned a tight black suit that quickly ripped, revealing the pale skin beneath. But a story by Kipling credits the stripes to the zebra's sojourn in a jungle dappled with sun and shadow.  p 
 p Now scientists have another answer: the stripes are related to temperature. In a new study, researchers show that zebras are more heavily striped in places with hotter climates.  p 
 p That suggests the stripes may help the zebra keep its cool or could help it avoid diseases that spread more easily at higher temperatures or both, the scientists argue in this week's  i Royal Society Open Science  i . In any case, they say, the stripes probably serve more than one purpose.  p 
 p "Why has the zebra come up with this crazy striping scheme? We think it's because they're trying to solve multiple problems with one solution," says study co-author Brenda Larison of the University of California, Los Angeles.  p 
 p Larison explains that zebras have to spend more of their time looking for food than do other vegetarian animals. That puts zebras at greater peril of overheating and becoming lunch for lions and biting flies. Perhaps, Larison says, stripes are the zebra's defense against multiple dangers. To find out more, the colleagues looked at why some zebra patterns are more eye-popping than others.  p 
 p The researchers photographed the plains zebra, the most widespread and common zebra species, at 16 sites in seven African countries. The scientists also gathered data on local conditions such as vegetation and rainfall and analyzed which factors best accounted for stripe number, thickness and so on.  p 
 p They found that zebras living in reliably hot places near the equator boasted more spectacular stripes, while their brethren that suffered through colder temperatures had less striping to show off. One theory has it that more warm air rises off black stripes than white, creating tiny whirlwinds of air that act like a personal fan. The researchers point out that the thin-striped Grevy's zebra seeks shade at midday – while nearby, the fat-striped plains zebra stands untroubled in the blazing sun.  p 
 p Temperature also affects the levels of dangerous microbes carried by flies that bite zebras. So perhaps the stripes also shield the zebra from disease, the authors say. But they found no evidence for two popular ideas: that stripes ward off predators such as lions and that stripes make zebras less of a target for the ferocious tse-tse fly.  p 
 p Those results lead researcher Tim Caro of the University of California, Davis, to say he's "really delighted" with the new study. The new findings combined with an analysis Caro published last year "are pretty much killing (the lion) hypothesis stone-dead," Caro says. He's dubious, though, that stripes serve as a natural zebra air-conditioner. br                  "If one were trying to cool oneself, it doesn't seem terribly sensible to have a large expanse of black hair along your back, where the sun falls on you," he says.  p 
 p Larison responds that the relationship between color and heating is complex. Ravens, for example, hold their black feathers away from their skin to create a breeze. Larison says she and her colleagues already have preliminary data that the zebra's black-and-white bands keep its external temperature lower than that of other animals of a similar size, suggesting that the animal's pattern may really earn its stripes.  p 
 p The new research was funded by the National Geographic Society.  p 
