 p We’re off to Africa to meet one of nature’s coolest looking creatures. Check out our ten top  strong zebra facts  strong ! b  br 
  b  br 
 a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 Zebra-facts-2.jpg"  img class="alignnone size-full wp-image-8191" src="http:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 Zebra-facts-2.jpg" alt="Zebra facts" width="635" height="404" srcset="https:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 Zebra-facts-2.jpg 635w, https:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 Zebra-facts-2-300x191.jpg 300w" sizes="(max-width: 635px) 100vw, 635px"   a   p 
 p  strong Phylum  strong : Chordata br 
 strong Family name  strong : Equidae br 
 strong Classification  strong : Mammal br 
 strong IUCN status  strong : Plains zebra: Least Concern. Grevy’s zebra: Endangered. Mountain zebra: Vulnerable br 
 strong Lifespan (in wild)  strong : 25 years br 
 strong Weight  strong : 200-450 kg br 
 strong Body length  strong : 2.2-2.5m br 
 strong Top speed  strong : 65km h br 
 strong Diet  strong : Herbivore br 
 strong Habitat  strong : Grassland br 
 strong Range  strong : br 
 a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 map-zebras.jpg"  img class="alignnone size-full wp-image-8198" src="http:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 map-zebras.jpg" alt="Zebra facts" width="470" height="300" srcset="https:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 map-zebras.jpg 470w, https:  www.natgeokids.com wp-content uploads 2017 04 map-zebras-300x191.jpg 300w" sizes="(max-width: 470px) 100vw, 470px"   a   p 
 p  strong 1)   strong Our planet is home to three different species of zebra, the  strong plains zebra  strong ,  strong Grevy’s zebra  strong  and  strong mountain zebra  strong , all three species are native to Africa.  p 
 p  strong 2)  strong  The most common species is the plains zebra, which roams grasslands and woodland of eastern and southern Africa. The Grevy’s zebra can be found in dry, semi-desert areas of Kenya and Ethiopia, and the mountain zebra lives in mountainous and hilly habitats in Namibia, Angola and South Africa.  p 
 p  strong 3)  strong  Closely related to horses, zebras have thick bodies, thin legs, a tufted tail, and a long head and neck sporting a short mane. And their most famous feature? Their  strong brilliant black-and-white striped coat  strong , of course!  p 
 p  strong 4)  strong  So why do zebras have stripes? Well, scientists aren’t entirely sure. Their stripes perhaps serve to dazzle and confuse predators and biting insects, or to control the animal’s body heat. Because  strong each individual’s stripes are unique  strong , their stripes may also have a social purpose, helping zebras to recognise one other.  p 
 p  strong 5)  strong  These cool creatures are herbivores and spend most of their day eating grass, and sometimes leaves, shrubs twigs and bark, too. Their teeth are well adapted for grazing, with sharp incisors at the front of their mouth to bite the grass, and large molars at the back for crushing and grinding.  p 
 p  strong 6)  strong  Zebras are constantly on the move for fresh grass to eat and water to drink. Super stealthy creatures, they’ll travel thousands of kilometres in search of green pastures where they can fill their bellies and quench their thirst!  p 
 p  strong 7)  strong  Zebras are social animals and live together in large groups, called herds. As they migrate to new feeding grounds, ‘super herds’ may form consisting of thousands of individuals. They may team up with other grazers on their travels, too, such as antelope and wildebeest.  p 
 p  strong 8)  strong  Within a herd, zebras tend to  strong stay together in smaller family groups  strong , made up of a dominant male, several females (called ‘mares’) and their young (called ‘foals’). When they are between one and three years old, males (or ‘stallions’) leave to join ‘bachelor herds’ (all-male groups), where they stay until they’re old enough and strong enough to compete for females.  p 
 p  strong 9)  strong  As elegant and peaceful as they are, don’t be fooled – zebras can be aggressive animals, too! Stallions fight for females with piercing bites and powerful kicks that are strong enough to cause serious damage – and sometimes even kill!  p 
 p  strong 10)  strong  Their  strong fierce fighting skills  strong  and strong social bonds help to protect zebras from predators, which include  strong  a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com discover animals general-animals 10-lion-facts " target="_blank" lions  a   strong ,  strong  a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com discover animals general-animals leopard-facts " target="_blank" leopards  a   strong ,  strong  a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com discover animals general-animals spotted-hyena-facts " target="_blank" hyenas  a   strong  and  a href="http:  www.natgeokids.com discover animals general-animals cheetah-facts " target="_blank"  strong cheetahs  strong   a . When under threat, these awesome animals form a semi-circle facing the attacker, and prepare to strike if need be. And if one of the group is wounded or injured, other zebras will circle around and attempt to drive off the hungry attacker. All for one and one for all!  p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p I love zebras and I love this website it helps me learn about animals in a fun way  p 
 p It was so helpful for my school project  p 
 p i love horses and zebras (the only reason i love zebras is because i love horses!  p 
 p It's a little bit cool that they kick but I love all the animals in the world but it's ok I like it it's cool  p 
 p I ❤️Zebras thx soo much  p 
 p I love zebras now!  p 
 p I love zebra's their my favourite animal. I love their stripes.  p 
 p I love this website so much! It is a good way of learning all about animals! :) I used this website in my powerpoint and I got an A! -Gwenna xo  p 
 p awesome facts dood or doodet  p 
 p They are beautiful animals! Love it!  p 
 p I LOVE ZEBRAS.  p 
 p I love Zebras because they are related to horsses  p 
 p great facts.  p 
 p Cool facts about Zebras. i love reading them.  p 
 p I love this website you find everything  p 
 p I love animals  p 
 p Zebras are cool and smart  p 
 p I didn't know that zebras are herbivores  p 
 p I didn't know that zebras are a herbivore  p 
 p Very nice! My sister loves Zebra's and loves every single animal on the website! thanks its awesome!  p 
 p Very cool! =)  p 
 p i am finding out about animals, i wanted to find out about zebras =)  p 
 p love stripes  p 
 p Cool zebra facts!!  p 
 p I found those fact very interesting I could read that again.I love Zebras.  p 
 p Cool  p 
 p It is facernaiting to read and I think that lots of kids should read it  p 
 p Zebras are my favourite land animal  p 
 p I can't believe that Zebras have stripes because they confuse predators!  p 
 p Good zebra facts  p 
 p Our favourite fact is that Zebras protect the injured during an attack.  p 
 p I love the facts  p 
 p nice facts they helped me a lot  p 
 p WOW! I love these creatures and I love to get to know more about them.  p 
 p love zebras  p 
 p Awesome. I never knew thanks for the info  p 
 p Hi I read national geographic all the time and my kids always use mags for school projects.  p 
 p Awesome facts!  p 
 p my favourite fact was all the different kinds of zebra species there are  p 
 p I have a few questions.1.are zebras endangered?2.how many are left in the world?  p 
 p I love National Geographic :)  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
