 p  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net " AND MAMMAL GROUP  a   p 
 p Map block, Perhaps link to live maps and allow a caption (with hyperlinks to lthe bootom left. Action button to the right This dynamic map references sightings made of animals (both dead and alive) in Australia.  p 
 p View map in Google maps   p 
 p class="btn-orange"  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net contact" contribute a sighting  a     p 
 p The diet of Lumholtz's Tree-kangaroo's consists  primarily of foliage from a broad range of tree species and some vines. They are often seen as solitary individuals or in small family groups, they can be active at any time of the day or night and are mostly arboreal.   p 
 p The Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's diet consists of a variety of leaves, flowers and fruits, in some cases they eat mainly the leaf stems, probably due to a higher protein content. A detailed list of the plant species Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's are known to eat is available -  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net download_file view 61 177" TK Food plant list  a  .  p 
 p Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's are largely solitary animals, and males can be aggressive towards others. So if you see a more than one Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo in a tree or close together, it is most likely to be one adult female, with a joey (recently out of the pouch) and possibly an older joey, with possibly a visiting adult male.  p 
 p  font In  order to better understand the distribution and population of a  species that is difficult to locate in the wild such as Lumholtz's  Tree-kangaroo's the Tree Kangaroo and Mammal Group used a community  survey that was mailed to everyone on the Atherton Tablelands, asking  residents to record any sightings of Lumholtz's Tree Kangaroo's. This  survey provided information on over 2000 tree-kangaroo sightings and  the at the time provided a detailed overview of Lumholtz's  tree-kangaroos with regards population and distribution.    br   font   p 
 p class="btn-orange"  font  a target="_blank" href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net download_file view 87 177" Download PDF  a     font   p 
 p  font Additional related documentation maps from the survey are available to download:  br   font   p 
 p The distribution of Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo is restricted to north-eastern Queensland largely in the Wet Tropics Region, with a range extending from the Daintree River and Mt Carbine Tablelands near Mossman in the north, through the Atherton Tablelands to the Herbert River Gorge near Ingham in the south. Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's occupy a wide elevation range from near sea level to 1600m above sea level. Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo can be relatively common in 'suitable habitat', such as forests growing on nutrient rich basalt soils, in comparison to nutrient poor acid igneous and metamorphic soils.  p 
 p Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's are restricted mostly to rainforest habitats, but also extend along riparian vegetation through primarily open forest habitats, and less abundantly in wet sclerophyll forests along the western edge of the Atherton Tablelands, for example areas such as Wondecla and Toumoulin.  p 
 p Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo breeding is broadly seasonal, with most females producing a single young during the wet season. Age to maturity is two years for females and 4.6 years for males. While some species of Tree-kangaroo have been recorded as living to 20 years, for Lumholtz's tree-kangaroo's in the wild 12-15 years is considered more likely.  p 
 p  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net tree-kangaroos-australia-and-png dead-or-injured-tree-kangaroo" Click here to report a dead or injured Tree Kangaroo  a   p 
 p and mammal group  p 
 p data-redactor-inserted-image="true"  a href="http:  www.sustainablesolutionsglobal.com " supported by br   a   p 
 p STAY IN TOUCH  p 
 p data-redactor-inserted-image="true"  img src=" application files 7414 3771 4376 facebook.png" alt="" width="44" height="33"  a href="https:  www.facebook.com TreeKangarooAwareness" Find Us  a   p 
 p data-redactor-inserted-image="true"  img src=" application files 5514 3771 4376 newsletter.png" alt="" width="44" height="33"  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net documents" Newsletter  a   p 
 p data-redactor-inserted-image="true"  img src=" application files 4414 3771 4376 email.png" alt="" width="44" height="33"  a href="mailto:info@tree-kangaroo.net" Email  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net about-us" ABOUT US  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net about-us" About the Tree-Kangaroo and Mammal Group  a   p 
 p  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net membership" Membership  a  br  a href="https:  www.tree-kangaroo.net about-us"   a   p 
 p TrEE-KANGAROOS  p 
 p research projects br   p 
 p © 2015 The Tree Kangaroo and Mammal Group Inc.  a href="http:  sustainablesolutionsglobal.com "   a   p 
 p style="text-align: right;" TKMG is supported by     a href="http:  sustainablesolutionsglobal.com "  Sustainable Solutions Global Pty Ltd  a    p 
