 p Kangaroos are a large hopping  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals marsupials.html" marsupial  a  mammals found in  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz australia australia-facts-economy-government-people.html" Australia  a . They have a triangular, upright posture supported by two disproportionately large hind legs , small forelimbs and a large thick tail. They can  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-hopping-macropod.html" hop  a  at speeds of up to 70 km h and the female carries its young in a pouch in its abdomen.  p 
 p Kangaroos are members of the scientific animal family group   em  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals macropods.html" Macropodidae  a   em . The four largest animals in this in group are referred to as kangaroos. These are the  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals red-kangaroo.html" Red Kangaroo  a ,  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-eastern-grey.html" Eastern Grey Kangaroo  a ,  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-western-grey.html" Western Grey Kangaroo  a , and  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-antilopine.html" Antilopine Kangaroo  a .  p 
 p Kangaroos are most active around dawn and dusk. They move around in small social groups called 'mobs' or 'troops'. A kangaroo's lifespan is between 6 to 27 years. Surprisingly kangaroos are also excellent  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo.html#kangaroo-swimming" swimmers  a .  p 
 p class="related_article"  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-name-meaning.html"  strong Related Article:  What does Kangaroo Mean?  strong   a   p 
 p Kangaroos can vary in size from the Red Kangaroo which can grow to 2.5 meters tall and weigh up to 90kilos, to the Antilopine Kangaroo which is about 1.3 meters tall and weighs about 43 kilos.  p 
 p Kangaroos have short fur which varies in colour from orange-brown to grey to dark brown. Males are larger than females. Only females have pouches on their abdomen in which they carry and rear their young.  p 
 p A kangaroo's eyes are located high on its skull and provide it with a 324° field of vision with a 25° overlap (humans have a 180° vision with 120° overlap). Its eyesight has a sensitivity comparable with that of  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals rabbit-australian.html" rabbits  a , cattle or horses.  p 
 p Kangaroos have large pointed ears which can swivel independently of each other through 180°.  p 
 p The kangaroo has large outward projecting front incisor teeth which it uses to slice through grass and leaves on which it feeds. Large molars at the back of its mouth chop and grinds its food. The kangaroo replaces its teeth throughout its life. New teeth grow and slowly move forward replacing those in front which have been worn down or damaged. Four sets of replacement teeth are produced during the animal's lifetime, after which lost teeth are no longer replaced. If the animal hasn't died of old age by then, it will eventually die of starvation because it has no teeth left.  p 
 p Kangaroos have very small almost non-existence vocal chords. For this reason, they have a very limited range of vocal sounds. A mother communicates with her offspring with clicking sounds. An alarmed kangaroo may hiss and growl. A kangaroo may display aggression by making a "ha" sound. A male kangaroo may also make a chuckling sound during courtship.  p 
 p The kangaroo has short, small forelimbs. Its hands have five clawed fingers. These hands are used primarily for grasping and pulling down branches, fighting, and grooming. They are also used for  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo.html#how-many-legs-does-a-kangaroo-have"  pentapedaling   a  (crawl-walking). The kangaroo has an unusual way of keeping cool. It licks its forelimbs covering them with saliva, and as the saliva evaporates, it helps to cool its body.  p 
 p Only female kangaroos have pouches. Male kangaroos do not have pouches. Like all marsupial mammals, the female kangaroo rears its offspring in its pouch and feeds it milk. The pouch is located on its abdomen. A young kangaroo, which is  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo.html#kangaroo-reproduction" born  a  very immature, crawls up from the mother's birth canal to the pouch where it attaches itself to a nipple and remains for over four months before it ventures out. Even adolescent kangaroos will hop back into their mother's pouch when frightened.  p 
 p The kangaroo has two powerful hind legs with long narrow feet with four toes each. Its feet have soft pads, like that of a cat or dog. The first toe no longer plays an important role. The second toe is large and strong with a massive claw. It is used to provide traction when it is hopping. The third and fourth toes are fused, covered by skin, and have two small claws. The kangaroo used these two smaller toes for grooming.  p 
 p The kangaroo uses its powerful hind legs for  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-hopping-macropod.html#kangaroo-hopping-description" hopping  a . This is its primary means of locomotion. It has extraordinarily large and long  a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Achilles_tendon" Achilles tendons  a  that store elastic energy used to assist it in hopping. (In the photograph you will notice the huge tendon behind its shin-bone).  p 
 p A kangaroo usually moves both hind legs together. But can move them independently when required. The independent movement of its legs occur when the animal is turning while hopping when it places one leg slightly in front of the other to execute a turn.  p 
 p Because the kangaroo hops using bi-pedal (two legs like humans) locomotion it can easily pivot on one foot and rapidly change direction. It is claimed that it can make a 180-degree turn in a single hop. Four-legged animals with their relatively long bodies cannot turn as rapidly.  p 
 p While highly efficient at higher speeds the kangaroo's hind legs are ineffective at low speeds and hardly used. It uses  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-hopping-macropod.html#how-many-legs-does-a-kangaroo-have" pentapedaling  a  locomotion at slow speeds.  p 
 p A kangaroo can't move backwards. It can make very limited hops backwards when fighting. It cannot however actually do so as a means of locomotion. Yes a kangaroo can sit using its hind legs and tail.  p 
 p The kangaroo also uses is feet as an alarm. It does so by 'foot thumping' one or both of its feet. It is not certain if this behaviour is to alert other kangaroos of danger or as a warning to a predator to stay away, or both.  p 
 p class="related_article"  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-hopping-macropod.html"  strong Related Article: How Does a Kangaroo Hop?  strong   a   p 
 p The kangaroo's large thick tail serves a number of useful purposes. Without it, a kangaroo wouldn't be able to stand up, hop or move at slow speeds. It is also where a kangaroo stores its excess fat for use in times of hardship. When a kangaroo stands, its tail acts as the third point of a  a href="http:  en.wikipedia.org wiki Tripod_stance" rel="nofollow" tripod  a  and prevents it from toppling over. The tail also serves a similar purpose when a kangaroo springs up from a standstill position. While hopping, the tail acts are a counterbalance to its body, preventing the kangaroo from tipping forward. Contrary to popular belief, the kangaroo does not use its tail as a rudder.  p 
 p At slow speeds the tail is a vital part of its pentapedaling movement. The kangaroo also stands up on its tail, carrying its full weight on it, when it is  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo.html#kangaroo-fighting" fighting  a .  p 
 p Kangaroos are found throughout the Australian mainland and on the island of Tasmania. They live in temperate to hot climates and are not found in areas with snow. The  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals red-kangaroo.html" red kangaroo  a  lives in the arid and semi-arid interior of Australia. It prefers open plains, grasslands, and desert with some trees for shelter from the hot sun. The  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-eastern-grey.html" eastern grey kangaroo  a  lives in more moist scrub-lands of eastern, southern and south western Australia. The  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-western-grey.html" western grey kangaroo  a  is found throughout the southern parts of Australia and lives in grasslands and open woodlands. The  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-antilopine.html" antilopine kangaroo  a  lives in topical woodlands in the northern parts of Australia where there is grass beneath the forest canopy.  p 
 p A kangaroo produces almost no methane (Ch4) gas which is produced in large quantities by cattle and sheep through exhaling, burping and to a lesser extent by farting. The kangaroo's digestive system has evolved to convert the hydrogen by-products of digestion to  a href="https:  student.societyforscience.org article kangaroos-have-green-farts" acetate  a  which is then absorbed and used to provide energy. The kangaroo releases carbon dioxide (CO2) instead, which is 23 times less harmful to the environment than methane.  p 
 p Kangaroos are herbivores. They eat mostly grass. Some like the Red Kangaroo also eat the leaves and shrubs.  p 
 p Kangaroos prefer to feed at night but also graze early in the morning and late evening when its cool. They rest in the shade during the day.  p 
 p The Kangaroo has a chambered stomach. Its U-shaped fore-stomach helps it digest fibrous plant material too tough for even goats to handle. Its stomach is more similar to that of a horse than cattle. The kangaroo regurgitates its food, chews it again and swallows it. This extra munching breaks down the rough fibres of their diet and greatly improves its digestion.  p 
 p The Kangaroo is well adapted to the dry, hot Australian climate. It needs very little water extracting moisture it needs from its  span style="text-align:left" usual diet of grasses and shrubs  span . A kangaroo requires only 13% of the water required by a sheep. It can survive for months without drinking.  p 
 p Kangaroos also have an excellent sense of the weather and have been known to detect rainfall as far as 20 kilometers away and head towards it.  p 
 p The kangaroo reaches sexual maturity at around the ages of 16 months for females and 24 months for males. They have no fixed breeding period, but they mate more often when food is plentiful than during periods when food is scarce.  p 
 p As with all marsupials, the female kangaroo has three vaginas and two uteruses (uteri). The two outermost vaginas are used for sperm transportation to the two uteruses. Babies are born through the middle one. (See photo). By contrast, female  a href="australia-placental-mammals.html" placental mammals  a  have only one uterus and one vagina.  p 
 p With this unusual reproductive system, a female kangaroo can be in a continuous state of pregnancy, with a fertilised egg in one uterus waiting to be released, a baby growing in the second uterus, one in her pouch and another hopping outside but coming to its mother for milk. Another unique feature of these animals is that during times of extreme drought and starvation the female kangaroo can practice birth control by putting the babies growing in her uteruses "on hold", stopping their future development until conditions improve. This is called embryonic diapause. When the mother's pouch becomes free, the next baby will be born and move into the pouch, and the fertilised egg "on hold" in a uterus will start developing into a new foetus. Because of this multiple-offspring strategy and other adaptabilities unique to the kangaroo, populations can increase rapidly when food is plentiful.  p 
 p The male kangaroo has a two-pronged penis located behind its scrotum. (Most animals have the penis located in front). This two-pronged structure enables the male to inseminate the dual vaginas of the female kangaroo. When flaccid, the penis is withdrawn into the animal's body. Another adaptation for Australia's harsh environment is that the male kangaroo's body shuts down sperm production during periods of severe drought in order to conserve energy.  p 
 p The kangaroo egg, which is about 0.12 mm in diameter, descends from the female's ovary into an uterus where it is fertilized. Once fertilised the eggs is encased in a very thin shell similar to that of birds and reptiles. This shell is just a few microns thick and disintegrates when the egg reaches the third phase of gestation. A remnant from the evolutionary past this unusual characteristic is common amongst marsupial mammals. The gestation period for a kangaroo is approximately 30 days and varies amongst the different types of kangaroos.  p 
 p New Born Kangaroo Video  p 
 p As the time approaches for the young kangaroo to be born the female kangaroo cleans out its pouch by sticking her head into her pouch licking the inside of it clean. It then takes up a "birthing position" by sitting on its back with its tail between its legs and the hind legs extended straight forward. It also leans the trunk of its body forward. It then licks its birth canal opening possibly to stimulate the birth.  p 
 p The newborn kangaroo, no larger than a jelly-bean (2 cm) and weighing less than one gram soon emerges from the birth canal. It is born blind, hairless, with stumpy forelimb and hardly any trace of its hind legs. Even though it is still so underdeveloped the young newborn has an excellent sense of direction, knowing which way is up and down, and also an acute sense of smell. Using its little forelimbs in a swimming motion, the young joey crawls laboriously up its mother's fur to the pouch. This journey takes it about three minutes. The joey's journey is made entirely by itself. The mother does not assist it in any way. Once inside its mother's pouch, the joey quickly attaches itself firmly to one of four nipples in the pouch.  p 
 p Once it has attached itself to its mother's nipple, the young joey will stay hidden for up to six and a half months. Then it will start to tentatively pop its head out of its mother's pouch and observe the world around it. About two weeks later it will have gained enough confidence to venture out of the pouch and hop about close to its mother. However, if frightened it will immediately jump back into the safety of the pouch. By the time it is about 8 months old the joey no longer uses its mother's pouch.  p 
 p Kangaroo Baby Hopping Video  p 
 p The female kangaroo can produce two types of milk depending on the joey it is feeding. The milk produced in the nipple on which an embryonic joey is attached will be different from the milk produced to feed a joey which has already left the pouch and only comes back to be weaned.  p 
 p Because the young joey attaches itself so firmly onto its mother's nipple, early European explorers thought that baby kangaroos just miraculously grew off the nipple in the mother's pouch. This is because they could see no apparent opening inside the pouch the from which the joey could have emerged. They didn't know of the little joey's perilous journey from the birthing canal to the pouch.  p 
 p Kangaroo Fighting Video  p 
 p Kangaroos fight less than most other types of herbivores.  p 
 p These fights usually occur over mating rights and are more ritualistic than aggressive. A male kangaroo fights by kicking its opponent with its powerful hind legs and hitting and clawing with its front paws (which have sharp claws). Very rarely do kangaroos hurt each other during fights.  p 
 p Contrary to popular folklore a kangaroos do not punch or box like humans do.  p 
 p In the past kangaroos were sometimes dressed up in boxing gloves and made to fight humans. This cruel practice is now banned.  p 
 p Kangaroo Swimming Video  p 
 p Kangaroos usually live in rather dry areas with few large bodies of water. Oddly, however, they are very confident in water and are good swimmers.  span style="text-align:left" There are many recorded sightings of  a href="kangaroo-swimming-video.html" kangaroos swimming  a  in the sea and also fleeing into watering holes and rivers when threatened.  span   p 
 p The kangaroo swims by 'dog-paddling' with all four limbs. It can swim at a reasonable speed. Usually a kangaroo moves its rear legs in union, keeping them together when it hops, but while swimming its moves them independently.  p 
 p Kangaroo Fighting Off Dog  p 
 p Being large animals with powerful clawed feet and powerful kicks, kangaroos do not have any natural predators. Young animals may occasionally fall prey to eagles and  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals dingo.html" dingoes  a .  p 
 p Both domestic and wild dogs also attack kangaroos. The kangaroo is a good swimmer, and if pursued by a predator, it may flee into waterways and use its clawed forepaws to grab its assailant and  a href="https:  panique.com.au trishansoz animals kangaroo-attacks-dog-video.html" hold it underwater  a  till it drowns.  p 
 p The major causes of red kangaroo fatalities are droughts, motor vehicle road kills, hunting and intentional culling by governments.  p 
 p The Australian government estimates that there are 50-60 million kangaroos. Because of their large numbers and because they can sometimes cause serious crop damage and deplete farmer's water reserves the government allows limited kangaroo culling and harvesting. Permits are issued for the killing of 1-2 million animals each year.  p 
 p The kangaroo is not considered to be threatened and is listed by the ICUN as an animal of "least concern".  p 
