 p Matschie’s Tree Kangaroo—native to Papua New Guinea—is a critically  endangered species. The Milwaukee County Zoo has long supported tree kangaroo  conservation through its financial contributions to the  a href="http:  www.zoo.org treekangaroo" target="_blank" class="extlink" Tree Kangaroo  Conservation Program  a  and its participation  in the Tree Kangaroo Species Survival Plan captive breeding program. The Zoo’s longtime  resident, Kiama, has produced a total of six joeys over the last several years,  and in 2011 was the  em only  em  captive North American tree kangaroo  to produce offspring. The Tree Kangaroo Conservation Program is at  the forefront of numerous strategic wildlife and habitat conservation programs  to help this threatened species survive.  p 
 p  strong  img src=".. images events TreeKangarooAwarenessDay2016.jpg" alt="Matschie's tree kangaroo" width="220" height="227" align="right" hspace="6" vspace="2" On Saturday,  August 6  strong , in celebration of National Tree Kangaroo Awareness Day, the Zoo will hold  its own Tree Kangaroo Awareness Day from 10:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. in the  Australia building. The Zoo’s event this year has  an exciting addition! Come experience a kangaroo-themed performance by  Kohl's Wild Theater for this special occasion at 11:00 a.m. and 11:25 a.m. Kids can also color their own Tree Kangaroo masks—making them as unique  as the individual faces of every tree kangaroo—and can then try to walk like a  tree kangaroo along a tree limb. Join us for other special Tree Roo surprises  for the kids!  p 
 p Learn about wild tree kangaroos  and the Zoo’s wonderful animals, Kiama, Tia, and Ronji during our “Keeper Chat”  and feeding at 11:45 a.m. Observe natural behaviors simulated through Environmental  Enrichment at 1:00 p.m. The tree kangaroos will forage and interact with  fresh leaves, hidden treats and investigate bubbles—a novel sensory experience! A zookeeper will be there to answer all your questions during the enrichment  demonstration and throughout the day.  Support the Tree Kangaroo  enrichment program by purchasing a gift from its  a href="http:  amzn.com w YYPXVPHJWJ8B" target="_blank" class="extlink" Amazon Wish List  a .  p 
 p  a href="http:  www.caffevita.com coffee single-origin PNG-YUS" target="_blank" class="extlink" Café Vita's PNG YUS coffee  a , grown in the YUS  Conservation area of Papua New Guinea, will again be available for purchase this  year at a discounted price. This organic,  fair trade coffee (described as mellow and honey-like with flavors of hazelnut,  orange zest, and guava) supplements income for the native people of Papua New Guinea  who share the Matchie's Tree Kangaroo habitat. Sale of these unique beans  helps to support the livelihood of native people working to preserve the tree  kangaroo and its cloud forest home, with all profits going to tree kangaroo  conservation.  strong Free samples of this  exclusive roast are available from 10:00-2:00, while supplies last!!  strong   p 
 p  strong Join  us for the Zoo’s special awareness day for the Matschie’s Tree Kangaroo!  strong   p 
