 p  strong  span id="ref69341"   span Kangaroo  strong ,  any of six large  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science species-taxon" class="md-crosslink autoxref" species  a  of Australian  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal marsupial" class="md-crosslink" marsupials  a  noted for hopping and bouncing on their hind legs. The term  em kangaroo  em , most specifically used, refers to the eastern gray kangaroo, the western gray kangaroo, and the red kangaroo, as well as to the antilopine kangaroo and two species of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal wallaroo-marsupial" class="md-crosslink" wallaroo  a  ( em see below  em ). Less specifically,  em kangaroo  em  refers to all 14 species in the genus  em  span id="ref1254740"   span Macropus  em , some of which are called  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal wallaby" class="md-crosslink" wallabies  a . In its broadest usage,  em kangaroo  em  refers to any member of the family Macropodidae, which  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary comprises" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="comprises" comprises  a  about 65 species, including tree kangaroos and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal quokka" class="md-crosslink" quokka  a ;  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal rat-kangaroo" class="md-crosslink" rat kangaroos  a  are classified into “sister” familes, Potoroidae and Hypsiprymnodontidae. The Macropodidae are found in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Australia" class="md-crosslink" Australia  a  (including  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Tasmania" class="md-crosslink" Tasmania  a  and other offshore islands, such as  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Kangaroo-Island" class="md-crosslink" Kangaroo Island  a ),  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place New-Guinea" class="md-crosslink" New Guinea  a , and the islands east to the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Bismarck-Archipelago" class="md-crosslink" Bismarck Archipelago  a . Several species have been introduced into  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place New-Zealand" class="md-crosslink" New Zealand  a .  p 
 p With the exception of tree kangaroos (genus  em Dendrolagus  em ), all members of the kangaroo family (Macropodidae) rely on long, powerful hind legs and feet for hopping and leaping, their predominant forms of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic locomotion" class="md-crosslink" locomotion  a . Their long tails, thickened at the base, are used for balancing. This feature is most obvious in the large kangaroos, which use the tail as a third leg when standing still. Each long, narrow hind foot has four toes, the large fourth toe bearing most of the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal animal" class="md-crosslink autoxref" animal’s  a  weight. The second and third toes are united and merely vestigial, a condition known as syndactyly. The short forelimbs, having five unequal digits, are used almost like human arms, but all digits of the “hand” are sharp-clawed, and the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science thumb" class="md-crosslink" thumb  a  is not opposable. The head is relatively small; the ears are (in most macropodids) large and rounded; and the mouth is small, with prominent lips. The pelage is generally soft and woolly; in many species it is grizzled, and stripes may be present on the head, back, or upper limbs. All macropodids are herbivorous and have a chambered  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science stomach" class="md-crosslink" stomach  a  that is functionally similar to those of such  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal ruminant" class="md-crosslink" ruminants  a  as cattle and sheep. Ecologically, they occupy the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science niche-ecology" class="md-crosslink" niche  a  filled elsewhere by grazing and browsing animals (larger species tend to be grazers, smaller ones browsers). Several smaller species have become  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science extinction-biology" class="md-crosslink" extinct  a  or are gravely  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science endangered-species" class="md-crosslink" endangered  a , probably because of predation by introduced  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal fox-mammal" class="md-crosslink" foxes  a . The  span id="ref1254741"   span wedge-tailed eagle ( em Aquila audax  em ) is one of the macropodids’ few natural predators.  p 
 p In all species, the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science marsupium" class="md-crosslink" marsupium  a  (or  span id="ref1254727"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science marsupium" class="md-crosslink" pouch  a ) is well developed, opens forward, and contains four teats. The young kangaroo (“ span id="ref828216"   span joey”) is born at a very immature stage, when it is only about 2 cm (1 inch) long and weighs less than a gram (0.04 ounce). Immediately after birth, it uses its already clawed and well-developed forelimbs to crawl up the mother’s body and enter the pouch. The joey attaches its mouth to a teat, which then enlarges and holds the young animal in place. After continuous attachment for several weeks, the joey becomes more active and gradually spends more and more time outside the pouch, which it leaves completely at 7 to 10 months of age.  p 
 p Female macropodids of many species enter into heat within a few days after giving birth, mating and  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary conception" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="conception" conception  a  thus occurring while the previous offspring is still in the pouch. After only one week’s development, the microscopic  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science embryo-human-and-animal" class="md-crosslink" embryo  a  enters a dormant state, called  span id="ref1254728"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science diapause" class="md-crosslink" diapause  a , that lasts until the first joey begins to leave the pouch or until conditions are otherwise favourable. The development of the second embryo then resumes and proceeds to birth after a  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science gestation" class="md-crosslink" gestation  a  period of about 30 days. Therefore, the teats are for a while feeding young of very different developmental stages, during which time different teats produce two different  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary compositions" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="compositions" compositions  a  of  span id="ref1254729"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic milk" class="md-crosslink" milk  a . This is thought to be an  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary adaptation" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="adaptation" adaptation  a  for recovering population numbers quickly after a  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science drought" class="md-crosslink" drought  a , when breeding ceases and the diapause state is prolonged. In the gray kangaroos, which live in wooded country with a more predictable  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science environment" class="md-crosslink" environment  a , this system does not exist; there is no diapause, and the pouch is occupied by one young at a time.  p 
 p The larger species of kangaroos have complex, high-crowned  span id="ref828217"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science tooth-anatomy" class="md-crosslink" teeth  a . The four permanent  span id="ref1254730"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science molar" class="md-crosslink" molars  a  on each side of both  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science jaw" class="md-crosslink" jaws  a  erupt in sequence from front to back and move forward in the jaw, eventually being pushed out at the front. Thus, an old kangaroo may have only the last two molars in place, the first two (and the premolar) having long since been shed. The molars possess cross-cutting ridges, so that tough grass is sheared between opposing teeth. The molars of smaller macropodids are much simpler. The large kangaroos continue growing throughout life, especially the males (most markedly in the red kangaroo), whereas the smaller macropodids do not.  p 
 p Kangaroos have an irregular activity rhythm; generally, they are active at night and during periods of low  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science light" class="md-crosslink" light  a , but it is quite possible to find them out in the open in bright  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science sunlight-solar-radiation" class="md-crosslink" sunlight  a . During hot weather, kangaroos lick their forearms, which promotes heat loss by  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science evaporation" class="md-crosslink" evaporation  a . Kangaroos travel and feed in groups (“ span id="ref1254731"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science mob" class="md-crosslink" mobs  a ”) whose  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary composition" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="composition" composition  a  shifts, but they are not truly social, since the individual members move at liberty. One member can send the mob into a wild rout—individuals bounding off in all directions—by thumping its tail on the ground in a signal of alarm. In any mob, the largest male (“old man,” or “ span id="ref1254732"   span boomer”) dominates during the mating season. Males  span id="ref1254733"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic fighting" class="md-crosslink" fight  a  for access to females by biting, kicking, and boxing. These methods are also used by kangaroos to defend themselves against predators. With their agile arms, they can spar vigorously. They can also use the forepaws to grip an enemy while rocking back on their tails and then swiftly dropping their huge clawed hind feet. This tactic has been known to disembowel  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal dog" class="md-crosslink" dogs  a  and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic human-being" class="md-crosslink" humans  a . When chased by hunters with dogs, kangaroos often make for  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science water" class="md-crosslink" water  a , where they have been known to turn and press down on the dog with their forepaws in an attempt to drown it.  p 
 p Overall, however, kangaroos have benefited from human presence. Aboriginal hunters regularly burned large areas of forest and grassland, opening up the country for large grazers at the expense of smaller browsers. European pastoralists then cleared further tracts of dense vegetation and provided permanent sources of water in arid and seasonal habitats. By the late 20th century, the number of kangaroos in  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Australia" class="md-crosslink" Australia  a  had increased to the point that a major industry came to be based on them. The three most abundant species, the eastern gray, western gray, and red kangaroos, together number in the tens of millions. Every year millions of these three species, and thousands of medium-size species such as whiptail  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal wallaby" class="md-crosslink" wallabies  a  ( em M. parryi  em ), are harvested. Their  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science human-skin" class="md-crosslink" skins  a  are made into rugs and clothing, and their meat, formerly used as pet  a href="https:  www.britannica.com topic food" class="md-crosslink" food  a , is now increasingly sold for human  a href="https:  www.merriam-webster.com dictionary consumption" class="md-dictionary-link" data-term="consumption" consumption  a . The kangaroo’s status as a national symbol makes harvests politically controversial. Kangaroos are also killed because they compete for forage with  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal livestock" class="md-crosslink" livestock  a . Other threats are feral dogs introduced to the Australian mainland ( em see  em   a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal dingo-mammal" class="md-crosslink" dingo  a ).  p 
 p The  span id="ref828210"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal eastern-gray-kangaroo" class="md-crosslink" eastern gray kangaroo  a  ( em Macropus giganteus  em ) is found mostly in the open forests of eastern Australia and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Tasmania" class="md-crosslink" Tasmania  a . It is replaced by the  span id="ref828211"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal western-gray-kangaroo" class="md-crosslink" western gray kangaroo  a  ( em M. fuliginosus  em ) along the southern coast into the southwest of  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Western-Australia" class="md-crosslink" Western Australia  a . The ranges of the two species overlap in western  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place New-South-Wales" class="md-crosslink" New South Wales  a  and western  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Victoria-state-Australia" class="md-crosslink" Victoria  a . Both species, but especially the eastern, prefer lightly forested country, at least for refuge, but they go out into the open plains for grazing. Western grays are stockier and more brownish; there are different subspecies in the southwest, on  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Kangaroo-Island" class="md-crosslink" Kangaroo Island  a , and on the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Nullarbor-Plain" class="md-crosslink" Nullarbor Plain  a . Each of these may in fact be distinct species. Eastern grays may grow up to 2.1 metres (6.9 feet) in length, and some males can weigh as much as 90 kg (about 200 pounds). In contrast, western grays are shorter, with an average length of 1.6 metres (5.25 feet), and some males can weigh up to 54 kg (about 120 pounds).  p 
 p  span id="ref1254734"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal gray-kangaroo" class="md-crosslink" Gray kangaroos  a  can clear more than 9 metres (30 feet) at a bound—13.5 metres has been recorded—and can attain a speed of 55 km hr (kilometres per hour; 34 mph [miles per hour]). Research has revealed a remarkable advantage to  span id="ref1254735"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science bipedalism" class="md-crosslink" bipedal  a   span id="ref1254742"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science saltation-form-of-locomotion" class="md-crosslink" hopping  a . Although at low speeds kangaroos expend more  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science energy" class="md-crosslink" energy  a  than do quadrupeds of the same size, the  span id="ref828213"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal red-kangaroo" class="md-crosslink" red kangaroo  a  ( em M. rufus  em ) actually uses less energy at 10.1 km hr than at 6.5 and less still at higher speeds. This seems to be related to the storage of elastic strain energy in its  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science tendon" class="md-crosslink" tendons  a  and  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science muscle" class="md-crosslink" muscles  a . In addition, the heavy tail swings downward as the legs are moving backward, which helps to counteract the natural pitching motion of the head and upper body—another energy-saving device.  p 
 p The red kangaroo is found throughout Australia’s interior  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science grassland" class="md-crosslink" grasslands  a  and is the largest and most powerful macropodid. An old male may attain a head and body length of 1.5 metres (5 feet), have a tail 1 metre (3.3 feet) long, and stand 2 metres (6.6 feet) tall. Males can weigh 90 kg (200 pounds), but females are much smaller. Usually males are red and females are blue-gray, but there are generally a few red females and gray males in most  a href="https:  www.britannica.com science population-biology-and-anthropology" class="md-crosslink" populations  a . In regions such as western New South Wales, where red kangaroos and both species of grays can be found in the same general area, the red kangaroo is easily distinguished by its longer arms, convex face, whitish underparts, prominent black and white whisker marks on the muzzle, and bald patch on the nose (rhinarium). Gray kangaroos are more uniformly coloured, and the nose is haired.  p 
 p The  span id="ref828214"   span antilopine kangaroo ( em M. antilopinus  em ), sometimes called the antilopine wallaroo, replaces the red kangaroo in the plains of the tropical north, from  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Cape-York-Peninsula" class="md-crosslink" Cape York Peninsula  a  in the east to the  a href="https:  www.britannica.com place Kimberley-region-Australia" class="md-crosslink" Kimberleys  a  in the west. It is smaller than the red kangaroo and more  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal wallaroo-marsupial" class="md-crosslink" wallaroo  a -like in general appearance, although it is more slenderly built. Males can grow to be 1.8 metres (5.9 feet) long and can weigh as much as 70 kg (154 pounds), whereas females are smaller, often weighing less than 30 kg (66 pounds). The antilopine kangaroo is an extremely fast hopper. The  span id="ref69343"   span  a href="https:  www.britannica.com animal wallaroo-marsupial" class="md-crosslink" wallaroo  a , or euro ( em M. robustus  em ), is a smaller, stockier animal quite closely related to the red kangaroo and like it in that the sexes are coloured differently (black in the male, reddish in the female), though this is not universal. The rhinarium is larger than in the red kangaroo. This wallaroo lives in hilly country throughout mainland Australia except in the far north, where it is replaced by the smaller Woodward’s, or black, wallaroo ( em  span id="ref1254736"   span M. bernardus  em ).  p 
 p 
            We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
          p 
 p 
            Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
          p 
 p Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article.  p 
 p Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed.  p 
 p There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.  p 
 p Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.  p 
