 p  span data-sfref="[images|OpenAccessDataProvider]ab76b532-bd2f-67d7-bdc2-ff0000bf4b43" class="sfImageWrapper"  img src="https:  columbuszoo.org Media columbus-zoo-aquarium-2 kangaroo-1422---grahm-s-jones-columbus-zoo-and-aquarium.jpg?sfvrsn=e759d2a6_0" displaymode="Original" alt=" Kangaroo 1422 - Grahm S. Jones, Columbus Zoo and Aquarium" title=" Kangaroo 1422 - Grahm S. Jones, Columbus Zoo and Aquarium"   span  br 
 br 
Get close to one of the world’s weirdest and most wonderful animals from Down Under – experience the Kangaroo Walkabout. You’ll fully immerse yourself in the kangaroos’ world as you meander around their habitat, sharing the same open space as these amazing animals. The kangaroos are free to move throughout their area, so you might just get to see one hop across the path right in front of you. A knowledgeable Zoo staff person will be there to answer your questions about the kangaroos – and you’ll leave feeling like you just had a trip to Australia – all without the jet lag!  p 
 p  em *This area is weather dependent and is not open at night time Boo at the Zoo or Wildlights.  em   p 
 p 
                 span class="truncate" 
                  The largest primates, they have dense and muscular bodies. Their arms are long relative to 
their legs. Their arm-span can be more than 96 inches. Their coat is wiry and varies in color with various shades of brown, black, red and gray. Dentition is the same as man. 
As males enter adulthood, around 15 years old, they develop a broad, silvery-white saddle along the back, extending over the rump and thigh as they age. At that point, therefore, the male is called a "silverback". Hair length varies over different parts of the body. Hair on the chest is sparse-to-absent, as is the hair on the center of the face, fingers, toes, and underside of the hands and feet. Their skin is jet black almost from birth. 
Compared with the female, the male develops more pronounced jaw muscles that attach to the top of his skull, called the "sagittal crest". The brow bone is pronounced, the ears small and the nostrils are splayed and heavily padded. Females achieve their full size around age 10. Infants born in human care weigh
3.5 to 5.5 pounds at birth (usually smaller in the wild) and are weaned in two to four years.
                  span 
                 a href="https:  columbuszoo.org guide animal.html?id=f4ab7073-2457-4289-b242-174139c421fc" More Info  a 
                p 
 p Thanks to our official experience partners.  p 
