 p Photo: Sandy Carroll  p 
 p Tree kangaroos really are kangaroos that live in trees. They are marsupials and macropods and are the largest tree-dwelling mammals in Australia.   p 
 p In Australia, they live in far north Queensland. Other tree kangaroo species live in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. The two Australian species are the
    Lumholtz's and the Bennett’s tree kangaroo.  p 
 p They do look like kangaroos but have shorter legs, strong forearms and very long tails. Their feet have long curved claws and spongy soles for gripping
    and climbing.  p 
 p Tree kangaroos generally feed on leaves and foliage but will also eat fruits and flowers from native trees in the rainforest where they live. You will
    be lucky to spot one in the wild as they spend most of their lives in the high treetops. The best way to spot one is to look up and across the tree
    canopy in late afternoon after a light rain – they often move to the edges of a branch to catch a drying breeze.  p 
 p If you see an injured or dead tree kangaroo, contact a  a href="http:  www.tree-kangaroo.net tree-kangaroos-australia-and-png dead-or-injured-tree-kangaroo" rescue organisation  a .  p 
 p  strong You can make your neighbourhood friendlier for Tree kangaroos  strong    p 
 p Although tree kangaroos don’t visit our backyards, they need our help to keep their habitat clean and healthy. Habitat loss, cars and dogs are all threats
    to their survival.  p 
 p Simple things that you do can make a huge difference to Australia’s animals. That’s why the Foundation for National Parks &amp; Wildlife is running Backyard
    Buddies— to give you tips to help.  p 
 p  strong Be a backyard buddy  strong 
     br 
  p 
 p It’s easy. All you have to do is care... and take a few simple steps.  p 
 p Step one is to find out what tree kangaroos do and do not like.  p 
 p  strong Tree kangaroos love:  strong    p 
 p Living a solo life – most adults live alone but females will share their patch of home with recently weaned juveniles.  p 
 p The rainforest – which provides them with everything they need to survive. Rainforest clearing is their main threat.  p 
 p  strong But they don’t like:  strong    p 
 p Dogs and dingoes- when they move to a new area, they often have to cross open ground and are vulnerable to attack  p 
 p Owls, eagles and pythons – their natural predators  p 
 p Cars – when crossing roads, tree kangaroos will freeze if a car approaches instead of running. This is their natural survival behaviour but unfortunately
    it doesn’t work with cars.  p 
 p  strong Be a buddy to the tree kangaroo  strong    p 
 p  strong Try to:  strong    p 
 p  strong Avoid:  strong    p 
 p  strong Don’t be surprised if:  strong    p 
 p Tree kangaroos really are kangaroos that live in trees. They are marsupials and macropods and are the largest tree-dwelling mammal in Australia.
     br 
  p 
 p In Australia, they live in far north Queensland. Other tree kangaroo species live in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. The two Australian species are the
    Lumholtz's and the Bennett’s tree kangaroo.  p 
 p They do look like kangaroos but have shorter legs, strong forearms and very long tails. Their feet have long curved claws and spongy soles for gripping
    and climbing.  p 
 p Tree kangaroos generally feed on leaves and foliage but will also eat fruits and flowers from native trees in the rainforest where they live. You will
    be lucky to spot one in the wild as they spend most of their lives in the high treetops. The best way to spot one is to look up and across the tree
    canopy in late afternoon after a light rain – they often move to the edges of a branch to catch a drying breeze.  p 
 p  strong Find out more about your buddies  strong    p 
 p SIGN UP: to  a href="http:  backyardbuddies.org.au become-a-backyard-buddy" receive regular B-mails about animals  a  you’re
        likely to see in your backyard with tips on how to make your backyard friendly for them.   p 
 p class="literature-container"     span class="icon"  img src=" CatalystImages Literature pdf.png" alt="TREE KANGAROO FACT SHEET" style="width:16px;height:16px;border:0px;"   span   span class="name"  a href=" _literature_186922 TREE_KANGAROO_FACT_SHEET" TREE KANGAROO FACT SHEET  a   span  (238 KB)    p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14" Backyard Buddies is an initiative of The Foundation for National Parks &amp; Wildlife (ABN 90 107 744 771), a registered charity with the ACNC,
                with Deductible Gift Recipient (DGR) status. Donations over $2 are tax-deductible and we thank you for your support.   p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14"  a href=" legals terms-and-conditions" Terms &amp; Conditions  a  |   a href=" legals privacy-policy" Privacy Policy  a  |   a href=" legals corporate-governance" title="Corporate Governance" Corporate Governance  a    p 
 p class="text-center footerFontSize14" Australia is a land like no other, with about one million different native species. More than 80 per cent of the country’s flowering plants,
                mammals, reptiles and frogs are unique to Australia, along with most of its freshwater fish and almost half of its birds.   p 
