 p On Thursday, March 21, African Adventure will close at 4:30pm for our Roar and Pour Event  p 
 p Large hind feet, with reduced numbers of toes, long heavy tail and semi-bipedal stance is common to all the Megapod species. The males are considerably larger than the females. The gray roo males are about the size of the female red roos and wallaroos are just a little bit smaller. A roo’s head resembles a deer with large ears. The shoulder structure has many similarities to humans, with a clavicle (collar bone) and side-ways mobility. The hands have no opposable thumb but oppose each other radially, are very hand-like and they grip well.  p 
 p The ungulates of the outback, macropod roos range the grasslands and open woodlands of Australia’s inland plains. Tree kangaroos, of course, frequent the forests and are apt climbers. Some of the smaller roos frequent rocky outcroppings and are quite agile, leaping from rock to rock.  p 
 p The red roo male is rusty to red-brown with cream to white underparts; the female is ash grey, some having a reddish on the lower limbs; the joeys are born (exit the pouch) with their adult color.  p 
 p Megapods travel in groups called mobs. The size of the mob fluctuates seasonally, depending on water and food availability. Their dense fur is insulation against cold and shields the animals from the searing sun. They pant when overheated and need to cool. They will also lick their arms and chest if very hot.  p 
 p The pouch is well developed, which would make sense considering the potential jarring the joey might receive when the female is in full flight. Aboriginals used the various roos as a main part of their diet. Fleeing roos move, by 20-foot bounds or more, with great efficiency. The energy is loaded into the Achilles tendon each time the roo lands, the great legs bending under the impact. As the roo pushes off into the next leap, the energy is released and the net energy loss is quite minimal.  p 
 p They have been clocked at 88 km h for short distances (50 mph), although they usually travel at about 25 mph. They have been seen to jump as high as 3 meters (9 feet). Most, however, cannot clear 1.5 meters unless approaching it straight on. Many roos have been caught in fences because they hit it with their feet on the way over.  p 
 p The roo’s tail is strong, heavy and tapered and is used as a rudder and for balance when leaping. It is also a support, the third leg of a stool while sitting and a prop as the hind legs are moved forward during grazing. It can support the animal’s entire weight, as when the males are combating (a boxing and kicking match).  p 
 p The fetus of the red roo weighs only 0.75 – 1 g (1 30,000 the weight of the mother, according to Grzimek). The most well developed part of the fetal brain is the olfactory center. It is assumed that the fetus moves to the pouch, and ultimately to the teat, by its sense of smell. The front feet have well-developed toes and claws, the hind limbs are just limb buds.  p 
 p In one particular study, in Canberra, Australia, some 60-70% of kangaroo females that carried a youngster in the pouch were also pregnant. 20% of the females with joeys out-of-pouch had a new youngster on the teat.  p 
 p The roo’s tail is strong, heavy and tapered and is used as a rudder and for balance when leaping.  p 
 p  strong Daily   strong 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.  p 
 p Click  a href="https:  fresnochaffeezoo.org wp-content uploads 2019 03 2019-Hours-of-Operations.pdf" here  a  for all 2019 hours.  p 
 p  strong From $7.95 to $12.95  strong  Fun and affordable!  p 
 p  strong Starting at only $69  strong  Enjoy the Zoo year-round!  p 
 p With your support, the Zoo will continue to offer new and exciting animal habitats, educational adventures, and experiences of a lifetime.  br  a href="http:  www.fresnochaffeezoo.org support-the-zoo donate-now " Donate Now »  a   p 
 p class="skip" 
     a href="#primary-nav" class="skip" Skip to our site navigation  a ;
     a href="#main" class="skip" Skip to the main content  a 
  p 
