 p       p 
 p  strong Class   strong Mammalia  p 
 p  strong Order  strong  Diprotodontia  p 
 p  strong Family  strong  Macropodidae  p 
 p  strong Genus  strong  Megaleia  p 
 p  strong Species  strong  rufa  p 
 p The open plains, scrubland, grassland and desert of central Australia.  p 
 p Kangaroos cannot walk forward or backward. They must jump or hop to move around. They have powerful Z-shaped hind legs to propel them and a large tail used for balance when sitting or moving. They sometimes use a five-legged gait where the forelimbs and tail balance the animal as the hind legs are moved forward. Kangaroos are the only bipedal marsupial that moves on two legs instead of all four.  p 
 p Kangaroos are marsupials or pouched mammals. Females give live birth very early in the embryonic development phase and the extremely immature newborn must crawl up the mother’s fur and into the pouch where it is protected as it continues to nurse and completely develop.  p 
 p Kangaroos have several adaptations for living in the Australian heat. They sweat while moving and pant when exercise stops. In addition they have a dense network of blood vessels near the surface of the skin on their forearms. They lick their forearms which allows the wind to blow heat away from the warm blood. They spend the hottest part of the day sleeping or resting and graze at night or early morning when it is cooler.  p 
 p Kangaroos cannot walk forward or backward. They must jump or hop to move around. They have powerful Z-shaped hind legs to propel them and a large tail used for balance when sitting or moving. They sometimes use a five-legged gait where the forelimbs and tail balance the animal as the hind legs are moved forward. Kangaroos are the only bipedal marsupial that moves on two legs instead of all four.  p 
 p  em In the wild  em : Grasses, leaves, roots and low, herbaceous plants.  p 
 p  em At the zoo  em : Hay, grain and vegetables as well as vitamin and mineral supplements.  p 
 p Red kangaroo are large, and because of their strong legs and clawed feet keep most predators away. Dingos do prey on kangaroos, and the young may be captured by raptors. Humans also eat red kangaroo.  p 
 p Red kangaroos live in small groups of ten or less but come together in larger groups when food or water is scarce. A group of kangaroos called a “mob” consists mostly of females with their offspring and one or two males. Red kangaroo are mostly nocturnal and rest in the shade during the day.  p 
 p Female kangaroos reach maturity at 15-20 months, and males at 20-24 months. Red kangaroos can breed year round when seasonal conditions are favorable, and males will compete for mating opportunities with several females. Red kangaroos have a shortened gestation period and the young are born only 33 days after mating. The young kangaroos called joeys are born in a very immature state, averaging only one inch (2.5 cm) long, and weighing 0.035 ounces (less than one gram!). After birth the tiny newborn crawls up the mother’s fur into her pouch and immediately attaches itself to a nipple. The joey stays permanently attached to the nipple for about 70 days suckling and continuing to develop. Females nurse their young for about a year, carrying them in the pouch for the first eight months. Females may have one joey in the pouch, an older joey outside the pouch but still nursing, and a blastocyst awaiting implantation. Males do not assist in raising the young. Female kangaroos stay with their natal group but males leave when they reach maturity. Red kangaroo live up to 22 years in the wild.  p 
 p Red kangaroos are not threatened or endangered at this time. They are considered a nuisance animal in Australia because they damage fences, compete with livestock for grass and water, cause erosion and pose a hazard to drivers. Australia has a wildlife management program for culling of kangaroos. Throughout time, Aborigines (native Australians) have used kangaroos as a source of meat and hides. They are a sacred animal in the Aboriginal culture and appear frequently in Aboriginal art and stories.  p 
 p Get the FREE Denver Zoo app today, and be a pro the next time you visit the Zoo. You’ll get access to the Zoo map, daily activities and schedules, animal facts, and more. You can even load your membership card onto the app for additional convenience. It puts everything you need for an amazing Zoo experience right into the palm of your hand!  p 
 p  a href="https:  itunes.apple.com us app denver-zoo-mobile id1175927683?mt=8" target="_blank" rel="noopener" Download iOS  a    a href="https:  play.google.com store apps details?id=com.vantixsystems.denverzoomobile&amp;hl=en" Download Android  a   p 
 p class="fotbot" style="text-align: center;" Web development by  a class="newmed" href="https:  newmediadenver.com " target="_blank" rel="noopener" NEWMEDIA  a   p 
