 p style="text-align: center;" Fort Wayne Children’s Zoo |  a title="Australian Adventure" href="https:  kidszoo.org explore australian-adventure " Australian Adventure  a  |  a title="Animals" href="https:  kidszoo.org our-animals " Mammal  a   p 
 p  strong  img class="alignright" src="https:  kidszoo.org wp-content uploads 2012 01 habmap-kangaroo-2.jpg" alt="" width="350" height="180" An Aussie Animal  strong  br 
The eastern grey kangaroo lives primarily in Tasmania and Eastern Australia. While you can find them in the grassland and open woodlands, they prefer the heavy scrub and forest of the damp coast and mountains. At the Fort Wayne Children’s Zoo you can see eastern grey kangaroos in the Australian Adventure Outback.  p 
 p  strong Just plants, please!  strong  br 
In the wild, these kangaroos will eat mostly grasses and small plants. At the zoo, they eat grass hay, carrots, apples and herbivore pellets.  p 
 p  strong Where did their name come from?  strong  br 
Their fur is short, silver-grey, and darker on hands, toes, and tail.  p 
 p  strong Serious skills  strong  br 
Eastern grey kangaroos have large ears and excellent hearing. Their powerful hind legs, long feet, and a long muscular tail make these kangaroos excellent jumpers. Eastern grey kangaroos talk with clucking and grunting sounds.  p 
 p  strong One big hoppy family  strong  br 
Eastern grey kangaroos live in mobs with one large mature male, two to three females with joeys, and two or three younger males. Competition for a female may lead to fights between males. The baby, called a joey, is only the size of a jellybean at birth! This tiny infant must crawl to its mothers pouch, where it will feed and grow for several months. After 11 months the joey is old enough to leave the protection of the pouch.  p 
 p  strong Mobs on the move  strong  br 
Many mobs will graze together on grasslands. When feeding, they move with all four feet on the ground. Their tail acts as a support when grazing and as a balance when hopping. Eastern grey kangaroos rest in the shade during the afternoon. When the weather is extremely hot, they dig holes and sleep in the cool soil.  p 
 p Low concern  p 
 p  a title="Conservation Programs" href="https:  kidszoo.org conservation conservation-commitments " See what else the Zoo is doing in our ongoing commitment to conservation  a .  p 
 p  a title="You Can Help!" href="https:  kidszoo.org conservation you-can-help " You can help save the world’s wild animals and wild places  a .  p 
 p  strong No effort is too small!  strong   p 
