 p Next stop, Down Under! Join us as we learn all about one of Australia’s most amazing animals with our cool  strong kangaroo facts  strong …?  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  strong Scientific name  strong : Macropus br 
 strong Family  strong : Macropodidae br 
 strong Classification  strong : Mammal br 
 strong IUCN status  strong : Least concern br 
 strong Lifespan (in wild)  strong : Up to 23 years br 
 strong Weight  strong : Around 90kg br 
 strong Body size  strong : Over 2m in height br 
 strong Top speed  strong : 56km h br 
 strong Diet  strong : Herbivore – mainly grasses br 
 strong Habitat  strong : Australian deserts and grasslands  p 
 p    p 
 p style="text-align: justify;"  span style="text-align: justify;" Kangaroos belong to the animal family   span  strong style="text-align: justify;" Macropodidae  strong  span style="text-align: justify;" , which literally means ‘  span  strong style="text-align: justify;" big foot  strong  span style="text-align: justify;" .’ Thanks to their large feet and powerful hind legs, kangaroos can travel more than 56km h and leap   span  strong style="text-align: justify;" more than 9m in a single bound  strong  span style="text-align: justify;"  – that’s more than six ten-year-olds lying head to toe! They have small front legs and a long, strong tail which helps them balance while jumping. The tallest of all our planet’s marsupials, these amazing animals can stand   span  strong style="text-align: justify;" over two meters tall  strong  span style="text-align: justify;" . ?  span   p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Kangaroos are found in  strong Eastern  a href=".. .. .. .. .. places facts-about-australia" Australia  a   strong , where they live in small groups called  strong troops   strong or strong  herds  strong  (or ‘mobs’ by Australians), typically made up of 50 or more animals. If threatened, kangaroos pound the ground with their strong feet to alert and warn the others in the group. And these cool creatures aren’t to be messed with – when they fight, they punch and kick with powerful blows, and will sometimes even bite. Males will often fight each other over access to females.  p 
 p style="text-align: justify;" Female kangaroos sport a  strong pouch  strong  on their belly (made by a fold in the skin) to cradle baby kangaroos, called  strong joeys  strong . Newborn joeys are tiny, measuring just 2.5 centimetres, or about the size of a grape – cute! After birth, joeys travel unassisted through their mother’s thick fur to the comfort and safety of the pouch. A newborn can’t suckle or swallow, so the kangaroo mum uses her muscles to pump milk down its throat. At around 4 months, the youngster emerges from the pouch for short trips, and at ten months, it’s mature enough to leave the pouch for good.  p 
 p Kangaroos are  strong herbivores  strong  and like to chew on grasses, herbs and shrubs. Besides humans and wild dogs called dingoes, kangaroos face  strong few natural predators  strong . But that’s not to say that these guys have it easy. Heat, drought and hunger due to vanishing habitat are amongst the dangers these amazing marsupials face.  p 
 p    p 
 p While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                  p 
 p i loved it  p 
 p i searched this up for my homework  p 
 p I love kangaroo cool man  p 
 p That is really cool natgeokids I loved it  p 
 p Kangaroo is my favourite thing  p 
 p I❤️Kangaroos  p 
 p The kangaroos are the best Animals  p 
 p I love kangaroos.YOLO  p 
 p i love kangaroos so much  p 
 p I ❤️ Kangaroos  p 
 p Kangaroos are in danger  p 
 p kangaroo's are the best  p 
 p Nice!  p 
 p kangaroos are my favourite animal in austria  p 
 p I like kangaroos  p 
 p you are awsome  p 
 p wow  p 
 p The kangaroo is cool  p 
 p I cold not stop reading so cool  p 
 p great info keep it up :D  p 
 p so cool  p 
 p I love kangaroos so so sooooooooooooooo much  p 
 p I like Kangaroos  p 
 p im in 4th grade and i just want to say i love love love your magazines because i love animals  p 
 p Nice i love it.  p 
 p I cant believe joeys are so tiny,  p 
 p the facts were really useful and got me 5 5 in my homework  p 
 p I found this very very very very very very very very very very very very useful.  p 
 p class="text-intro" Type whatever you want to search  p 
 p class="more-res"  a href="" More Results  a   p 
 p class="external-link-website" 
                You’re leaving  strong natgeokids.com  strong   br  to visit another website!
              p 
 p 
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
              p 
