 p class="breaking-news__headline" Watch CBSN Live  p 
 p Forty years ago this
week, the Endangered Species Act was signed into law by President Richard Nixon,
making the United States the first nation on Earth to declare a basic right of
existence for species other than our own.   p 
 p The goal of the ESA was
simple: keep species from going extinct, no matter the cost. This was a law
with a conscience, and by and large it has worked. Today about 40 percent of
the plants and animals listed as endangered in the U.S. are stable or improving;
many would be gone without it.  p 
 p Some species have
recovered to such extent that they have been  i delisted   i - taken off the
Endangered Species List.  Many are
pictured here.   p 
 p Left: The Gray Whale
( i Eschrichtius robustus  i ), which has rebounded in numbers after hunting of the
sea giants was banned, was the first sea mammal to be taken off the Endangered
Species List. It is still guarded by the Marine Mammal
Protection Act.   p 
 p  i By CBSNews.com senior
producer David Morgan  i   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Merrill Gosho NOAA  p 
 p A Palau Fantail Flycatcher ( i Rhipidura lepida  i ), photographed in
Koror Palau by Devon Pike, was delisted, as was the Palau Ground Dove ( i Gallicolumba
canifrons  i ).   p 
 p Forty-seven species have been delisted from the Endangered Species
List owing to recovery or to improved data collection about their populations. Nearly
two dozen more species have been downlisted from "endangered" to "threatened,"
as threats to the species and their habitats are reduced.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Devon  Pike Wikipedia  p 
 p The Virginia Northern Flying Squirrel ( i Glaucomys sabrinus
fuscus  i ).  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  FWS  p 
 p Tennessee Purple Coneflower ( i Echinacea
tennesseensis  i ), photographed by Dr. Thomas G. Barnes of the University of
Kentucky. br   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Dr. Thomas G. Barnes, courtesy of USFWS  p 
 p Two sub-species of the Peregrine Falcon,
including the American Peregrine  ( i Falco
peregrinus anatum  i ), have
recovered. Despite delisting, the peregrine continues to be
protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.  p 
 p Delisted species have no legal protective status under the ESA,
but under an amendment to the law scientists continue to monitor populations for
a minimum of five years after delisting.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  USFWS  p 
 p Magazine Mountain Shagreen ( i Mesodon magazinensis  i ), a tiny
snail found in the Ozarks of Arkansas, was the first invertebrate removed from
the federal Endangered Species List, thanks to restoration efforts at its
habitat.  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Ron Caldwell, Lincoln Memorial University Courtesy of FWS  p 
 p Biologist Angela Boyer holds a Lake Erie Water
Snake ( i Nerodia sipedon insularum  i ) span  during an annual survey. Listed as
endangered in 1999, the species was delisted in 2011.  span   p 
 p The Concho Water Snake ( i Nerodia paucimaculat  i a), found in
Texas, has also been delisted.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Megan Seymour USFWS  p 
 p American endangered species protections have
also been extended to species beyond U.S. territories, such as the red kangaroo
(left, wandering onto the Vines Golf Course in Perth, Australia), in order to ban the import of the species or
products derived from them.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Stuart Hannagan ALLSPORT  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Bureau of Land Management  p 
 p Pesticides wiped out the Brown Pelican ( i Pelecanus occidentalis  i ) in Louisiana in the 1960s, but the bird was reintroduced and was brought back from the brink of extinction.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Thomas Maurer FWS  p 
 p Eggert's Sunflower ( em Helianthus eggertii  em ),
a plant native to Tennessee, Alabama and Kentucky, was removed from the federal
list of endangered and threatened plants in 2005, primarily after successful recovery
efforts at Arnold Air Force Base in Tennessee, home to the largest known
occurrence of the Eggert's Sunflower.  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  FWS  p 
 p In the
mid-1970s, the Aleutian Canada Goose ( i Branta canadensis leucopareia  i ), a
subspecies of Canada geese found
on Alaska's Aleutian Islands and in areas of the Pacific Northwest, numbered
only in the hundreds. Today, after efforts by the Fish and Wildlife Service and
through partnerships with Canada and private landowners, the numbers have
rebounded, and the threat of extinction has passed.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Glen Smart FWS  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Jim Bartonek FWS  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  USFWS  p 
 p In 1963 nesting pairs of the Bald Eagle ( i Haliaeetus
leucocephalus  i ) numbered as low as 400 in the lower 48 states. The species' dramatic
recovery (there are as many as 10,000 nesting pairs today) led to its delisting
in 2007.   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Karen Laubenstein U.S. Fish &amp; Wildlife Service  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Michelle Dela Cruz, National Park Service  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  USFWS  p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Rodney Cammauf National Park Service  p 
 p The gray wolf ( i Canis lupus  i ), which has been delisted in some parts of the United States; the Fish &amp; Wildlife Service recently held a public comment period on delisting the species throughout the lower 48 States, while also expanding recovery efforts for the Mexican Wolf ( i Canis lupus baileyi  i ).  p 
 p  i By CBSNews.com senior producer David Morgan  i   p 
 p class="credits"  span class="label" Credit:  span  Gary Kramer FWS  p 
 p class="copyright" Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. br All rights reserved.  p 
