 p Kangaroos are grazing herbivores, which means their diet consists mainly of grasses. They can survive long periods without water.  p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p The kangaroo is the national symbol of Australia.  p 
 p Eastern gray kangaroo ( em Macropus giganteus  em ): 8,978,000. br 
	Western gray kangaroo ( em Macropus fuliginosus  em ): 1,774,000. br 
	Red kangaroo ( em Macropus rufus  em ): 8,351,000.  p 
 p Kangaroos are found in Australia and Tasmania, as well as on surrounding islands. Kangaroos live in varied habitats, from  a href="http:  www.defenders.org forest basic-facts" forests  a  and woodland areas to grassy plains and  a href="http:  www.defenders.org grasslands tropical-grasslands" savannas  a .  p 
 p Kangaroos live and travel in organized groups or "mobs," dominated by the largest male. Male kangaroos are called boomers, bucks or jacks; females are does, flyers, or jills, and the young ones are joeys. The collective noun for kangaroos is a mob, troop or court.  p 
 p  strong Did You Know?  strong   p 
 p Kangaroos are the only large animals to use hopping as a means of locomotion.  p 
 p Because of its long feet, a kangaroo cannot walk normally.  p 
 p To move at slow speeds, a kangaroo will use its tail to form a tripod with its two forelimbs. It then raises its hind feet forward, in a form of locomotion called "crawl-walking."  p 
 p Usually, female kangaroos give birth to one joey at a time. Newborns weigh as little as 0.03 ounces at birth -  strong as small as a lima bean  strong ! After birth, the joey crawls into its mother's pouch, where it will nurse and continue to grow and develop. Red kangaroo joeys do not leave the pouch for good until they are more than eight months old. Gray kangaroo joeys wait until they are almost a year old.  p 
 p class="defenders-instant-form-disclaimer" 
       a href="http:  mobilecommons.com terms" Msg &amp; Data Rates May Apply.  a 
       br Text  b STOP  b  to opt out or  b HELP  b  for info. No purchase necessary.
       br Expect 4 msgs mo.  a href="http:  www.mobilecommons.com terms-and-conditions privacy-policy " Terms and Conditions  a 
      p 
 p 1130 17th Street NW br 
	Washington, DC 20036  p 
 p 1-800-385-9712  p 
 p ©2019 Defenders of Wildlife  p 
 p  strong 97%  strong  Program and Support Services  p 
 p  strong 3%  strong  Fundraising  p 
