 p class="pdfright"  a href="documents Tree-Kangaroo-info-sheets Bennetts-tree-kangaroo-info-sheet.pdf" Download Bennetts Tree Kangaroo - information sheet  a   p 
 p Family:  strong Macropodidae  strong  br 
        Genus:  em  strong Dendrolagus  strong   em  br 
        Species:  em  strong bennettianus  strong   em   p 
 p Bennett's Tree Kangaroo  br 
           em (Dendrolagus bennettianus)  em   p 
 p Illustration - Peter Schouten  p 
 p  strong Characteristics:  strong  They  have a black chest, stomach and underside of tail. The back, legs and arms are  usually brown and grey. The colour pattern of this species is the reverse to  the normal colour pattern for mammals which may help camouflage the animal from  below.  p 
 p   strong Males:  strong  13 kg (Average weight)  p 
 p  strong Females:  strong  10 kg (Average weight)  p 
 p  strong Distribution:  strong  Montane  and dry lowland rainforest of far north Queensland, Australia.  p 
 p  strong Elevation:   strong sea level –  1,400 meters above sea level.  p 
 p  strong Diet:   strong Epiphytic strong    strong ferns  and leaves.  p 
 p  strong Reproduction: T  strong he  rate of reproduction is slow. Young Bennett's Tree Kangaroos spend about eight  months in their mother's pouch and then stay close to mum for around two years.  Sexual maturity is possibly at two years of age for females but is unknown for  males.  p 
 p  strong Conservation Status:  strong  Near  threatened (IUCN)  p 
 p  strong Habits  strong : br 
        Bennett's Tree Kangaroo lives in  montane and dry lowland rainforest of far north Queensland, Australia. It can  be found from elevations close to sea-level to approximately 1350m. Despite  being able to survive in different habitats its geographic range is very small,  perhaps less than 2000 square kilometres.  p 
 p Bennett's Tree Kangaroo is a  large species with adult males, which are larger than females, reaching almost  14 kilograms in weight.  p 
 p Bennett's Tree Kangaroos have a  black chest, stomach and underside of tail. The back, legs and arms are usually  brown and grey. The colour pattern of this species is the reverse to the normal  colour pattern for mammals. This could be an adaptation to avoid detection from  predators. This colour reversal may camouflage the animal from below.  p 
 p Males of the species defend large  territories which can overlap the territories of two or three females. The  territories of females do not overlap with other females and are smaller than  the territories of males.  p 
 p As is the way with Tree Kangaroos,  the rate of reproduction is slow. Young Bennett's Tree Kangaroos spend about  eight months in their mother's pouch and then stay close to mum for around two  years. Sexual maturity is possibly at two years of age for females but is  unknown for males.  p 
 p  strong Conservation Status:  strong  br 
        Hunting  from Aborigines restricted the population and distribution of the Bennett's  Tree Kangaroo. Now this hunting is no longer and so its distribution and  probably population has increased.  Although  only found within a small area it is protected in the world heritage area but  the quality of its habitat is declining and is classified as near threatened.  p 
 p  strong References:   strong  br 
           em Mammals  of new Guinea – Tim Flannery (1995)   em  br 
           em Tree  Kangaroos - a curious natural history – Tim Flannery, Roger Martin and  Alexandra Szalay (1996).    em  br 
           em Illustrations  Peter Schouten.    em  br 
         a href="http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 6426 0"  em http:  www.iucnredlist.org details 6426 0  em   a    p 
 p Distribution of the Bennett's Tree Kangaroo  p 
 p  a href="contribute.html" onmouseout="MM_swapImgRestore()" onmouseover="MM_swapImage('Contribute','','images contribute-2.png',1)"  img src="images contribute-1.png" alt="Contribute to Tenkile Conservation Alliance" title="TCA’s vision is for the people of Papua New Guinea to value and protect their natural resources, communities and cultures in the context of advancing the overall well being of their communities and their places." name="Contribute" width="227" height="87" border="0" id="Contribute"    a   p 
 p class="soc-med-bot" There are many valuable ways in which you can contribute to  the Tenkile Conservation Alliance’s vision – which is, the people of PNG value  and protect their natural resources, their community and their culture. br 
          Click 'Contribute' button above to learn more.   p 
 p Tenkile Conservation Alliance is proudly supported by:  p 
 p    p 
 p  !-- img src=".. images UNDP-logo-bot.jpg" width="49" height="100" alt="UNDP logo" class="logo-bot"   img src=".. images GEF-logo-bot.jpg" width="85" height="100" alt="gef logo" class="logo-bot"   img src=".. images SGP-LOGO-bot.jpg" width="164" height="100" alt="Small Grants Programme logo" class="logo-bot"       img src=".. images sponsors iucn-logo.jpg" alt="IUCN logo" width="200" height="100"   --   img src="images sponsors website-sponsors-2018.png" alt="TCA Sponsor logos"   p 
 p  br 
       em The content of this email does not necessarily reflect the views of the European Union or any other TCA partner.  em   p 
 p All rights reserved:  br 
        Tenkile Conservation Alliance span Website by:  a href="http:  www.davpatdesigns.com.au" www.davpatdesigns.com.au  a   span   p 
