 p style="text-align: center; padding:10px; margin-top:0; width: 100%;background: red; color: #FFF;font-size: 14px;font-weight: bold;"  a style="color: #FFF;text-decoration: underline;" href=" petition " Sign the petition: Stop the Harvesting of Crocodile Eggs  a   p 
 p style="margin-left:10px;"  a href="https:  shop.australiazoo.com.au australia-zoo plush-and-toys 1262-embroidered-plush-kangaroo" style="color:#FFF;" Embroidered Plush Kangaroo  a   p 
 p style="margin:20px 0 20px 110px;"  a href="https:  shop.australiazoo.com.au australia-zoo plush-and-toys 1262-embroidered-plush-kangaroo" class="shopbutton-green" Shop Now »  a   p 
 p ( i Macropus rufus  i )  p 
 p The Red Kangaroo has a naked muzzle with a black and white mark on the sides of the muzzle and a broad white stripe running from the corner of the mouth to base of the ear. Their fur is rather short and velvety to the touch. The front limbs of a Red Kangaroo are small and short with heavily-clawed digits. The hind feet are long and extremely powerful enabling the Red Kangaroo to travel at speeds as fast as 65kph (40mph).  p 
 p  Female 'reds' are often called 'blue flyers' due to the blue-grey colouring of their fur.  p 
 p  strong Habitat  strong   p 
 p The Red Kangaroo is found over most of Central Australia. They prefer sparsely wooded or open plains with plenty of shade. They will also occupy mallee scrub and the more arid desert portion of Australia. The Red Kangaroo has adapted well to these hot and dry conditions (where rainfall is less than 500mm per year) and numbers in these areas are abundant.  p 
 p  They normally move in groups ranging from a few dozen to several hundred individuals. These groups are known as mobs. The mob usually consists of a dominant male, a number of adult females, several subordinate males and juveniles of both sexes.   p 
 p  strong Diet  strong   p 
 p The Red Kangaroo has the ability to survive on very small water rations. The herbage and foliage that the Kangaroo eats provides them with their water needs as well as their nutritional requirements. In times of drought, Red Kangaroo populations can suffer as their food supplies diminish.   p 
 p  strong Breeding  strong   p 
 p The Red Kangaroo breeds all year round. The females have the unique ability to delay birth of their baby until their previous Joey has left the pouch. This is called embryonic diapause. The gestation period is around 33 days. The young Joey will permanently leave the pouch at around 235 days old, but will continue to suckle until it reaches 12 months of age.   p 
 p   a href="#Pebbles" Pebbles  a   p 
 p »  a href=" our-animals mammals kangaroos eastern-grey-kangaroo " Eastern Grey Kangaroo  a  br »  a href=" our-animals mammals kangaroos red-kangaroo " Red Kangaroo  a  br »  a href=" our-animals mammals kangaroos red-necked-wallaby " Red-necked Wallaby  a  br »  a href=" our-animals mammals kangaroos black-footed-rock-wallaby- " Black-footed Rock Wallaby   a  br   p 
 p Sex: Female  p 
 p Now this is a red roo that loves to play jokes on the other kangaroos - our cheeky Pebbles likes to creep up on her mob mates and grab their tails and then hop away.  p 
 p She is a striking kangaroo with very pretty features especially around her face, just like her beautiful mum Dusty.  p 
 p With such a cheeky nature we are always keeping an eye on her so that she does not teach any of the new joeys her sneaky tricks!  p 
 p By sponsoring one of our animals or conservation projects at Australia Zoo, not only do you have the satisfaction of knowing you are making a difference - you will also receive gifts of appreciation according to the level at which you sponsor! Wooo-hoo!  p 
 p  strong $50 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $100 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $250 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $500 Donation  strong   p 
 p  strong $10000 Donation  strong   p 
 p    p 
 p  a href="#" onclick="$.closeOverlay();return false;" close  a   p 
 p  1638 Steve Irwin Way  br Beerwah, Qld, 4519  br + 61 (7) 5436 2000  br  a href="https:  www.australiazoo.com.au" www.australiazoo.com.au  a   p 
 p style="font-size: 12px;" Open Daily 9.00am - 5.00pm br  Closed Christmas Day br  Bedtime for some of our animals is 4:30pm.   p 
